
                               
 New York Police Twitter Backlash Spreads Around the World

 

What about YOUR police? http://t.co/UyP6yzgZ0X #myELAS #myNYPD #myLAPD
#MiPolicia #MiPoliciaMexicana #DankePolizei http://t.co/Nn1X7sT0xs

- Jo Di (@jodi2014)23 Apr 14

What began as an effort by the New York Police Department to get people to share
favorable photos of city police officers on Twitter has turned into an
international social media campaign about police abuse.

As my colleague J. David Goodman reports, the Police Department's Twitter
hashtag #mynypdwas quickly hijacked after @NYPDNews made its initial callout.

Do you have a photo w/ a member of the NYPD? Tweet us & tag it #myNYPD. It may
be featured on our Facebook. http://t.co/mE2c3oSmm6

- NYPD NEWS (@NYPDnews)22 Apr 14

Now, people are sharing unflattering photos of police officers on Twitter from
Greece, with the hashtag #myELAS, to Mexico, using the hashtag
#MiPolicíaMexicana.

Comienzan tuiteros a enviar fotos de los excesos de policías de México similares
a campaña #myNYPD #MiPolicíaMexicana http://t.co/oYaed3OIkU

- Demian Sánchez (@psicdemian)23 Apr 14

In Greece, Twitter users were sharing encounters with police officers from
protests in the last two years.

E[#x3b4][#x3ce], [#x3ac]\xCE[#x3b4][#x3c1][#x3b1][#x3c2] [#x3c4][#x3b7][#x3c2]
#myELAS [#x3b4][#x3c1]\xCE[#x3c3][#x3af][#x3b6][#x3b5][#x3b9] [#x3c4]\xCE
[#x39c][#x3b1]\xCE[#x3ce][#x3bb][#x3b7] G[#x3bb][#x3ad][#x3b6]\xCE,
[#x3c3][#x3b5] pit stop
[#x3b1][#x3b8][#x3bb][#x3b7][#x3c4][#x3b9][#x3ba][#x3ae][#x3c2]
[#x3b5][#x3ba][#x3b4][#x3ae][#x3bb][#x3c9][#x3c3][#x3b7][#x3c2]
[#x3ad][#x3be][#x3c9] [#x3b1][#x3c0][#x3cc] [#x3c4][#x3b7]
B\xCE[#x3c5][#x3bb][#x3ae]. http://t.co/dd4TLvn7qU

- To [#x3a0]\xCE[#x3c4][#x3ac][#x3bc][#x3b9]
[#x3a3][#x3ba][#x3c9][#x3c4][#x3af][#x3b1][#x3c2] (@annzabel)23 Apr 14

Twitter users in Los Angeles turned to the hashtag #myLAPD to share photos of
police officers there.

#myLAPD wear more combat gear then a U.S soldier deployed in Afghanistan .
@LAPDHQ http://t.co/cwFsHDM3gr

- JCL_50 (@JC_Lomeli)23 Apr 14

In New York City, a Twitter account for the Occupy Wall Street movement urged
its followers to share photos of the police "changing hearts and minds one baton
at a time."  Several of the photos, including one from The Associated Press,
came from confrontations with city police officers during multiple protests
organized by Occupy Wall Street, starting in the fall of 2011.

Here the #NYPD engages with its community members, changing hearts and minds one
baton at a time. #myNYPD http://t.co/GErbiFFDvY

- Occupy Wall Street (@OccupyWallStNYC)22 Apr 14

"And we're going to have to run you over, just for good measure." #myNYPD
http://t.co/q6JMNAajxb

- Casey Aldridge (@CaseyJAldridge)22 Apr 14

You might not have known this, but the NYPD can help you with that kink in your
neck. #myNYPD http://t.co/fzUok1FWXG

- Cocky McSwagsalot (@MoreAndAgain)22 Apr 14

I'm here for my free bus ride to Pier 57, Officer. You'll have someone take care
of my bike for me? Thanks! #myNYPD http://t.co/uPErsswedY

- Dino A. Dai Zovi (@dinodaizovi)23 Apr 14

Need a lift? The #NYPD's got you! Free Delivery, Only at #myNYPD
http://t.co/AStS3ZjoZu

- Occupy Wall Street (@OccupyWallStNYC)22 Apr 14

Backlash against #myNYPD social media campaign spills over into user-generated
#myLAPD hashtag http://t.co/m77VyfiCdb http://t.co/J8ggytEdhK

- Occupy Wall Street (@OccupyWallStNYC)23 Apr 14

The #NYPD will also help you de-tangle your hair. #myNYPD http://t.co/nrngQ1bOWv

- Cocky McSwagsalot (@MoreAndAgain)22 Apr 14

A Twitter user from Venezuela, where police officials have been clashing with
protesters in recent weeks, said police abuse was much worse in that country.

If you think that NYPD is brutal and corrupt , come to Venezuela. #myNYPD
http://t.co/3Ay2nLsxXu

- Kauh (@Kauh)23 Apr 14

While most of the photos on Twitter did not portray police officers in the best
light, a few people did post positive images.

Outside MET museum #myNYPD http://t.co/o9z5nDr38Y

- Nadia Schraier (@Nadiaschraier)23 Apr 14

@NYPDnews #myNYPD #wallstreet http://t.co/WCREuIjNjZ

- vanematus[#x262e] (@vanvanmt)22 Apr 14



     ·    Share Your Experience With Race on Campus
     ·    Turks Protest New Internet Restrictions, in the Streets and Online
     ·    Atlanta's Residents and Officials Turn to Social Media Amid Snowstorm
          Chaos
     ·    U.A.E. Releases American Who Was Jailed for Satirical Video
     ·    American Gets One-Year Sentence for Spoof Video in United Arab
          Emirates



                               
 Last Criminal Trial Related to Occupy Wall Street Protests at Zuccotti
Park Is Underway

 

By most accounts, Occupy Wall Street's moment in the cultural spotlight has
passed, and headlines about disaffected New York idealists protesting the wide
gap between rich and poor have become scarce.

But in State Supreme Court in Manhattan this week, the last of the criminal
trials stemming from the protests in Zuccotti Park in 2011 has begun to play
out, accompanied by much of the street theater of the protests as the movement's
loyalists rally around one of their own, Cecily McMillan.

Ms. McMillan, 25, is accused of assaulting a police officer who arrested her on
March 17, 2012, the night hundreds of people gathered to observe the founding of
the Occupy Wall Street movement six months earlier. The police swept through the
park, in Lower Manhattan, and physically carried out scores of chanting
protesters, many of whom went limp and refused to budge.

The central issue facing jurors, who are being selected this week, is who
assaulted whom. Prosecutors say Ms. McMillan wheeled around and elbowed Officer
Grantley Bovell in the face while he was arresting her. Ms. McMillan says
Officer Bovell grabbed her right breast from behind and she reacted
instinctively, not knowing he was a police officer.

She has published pictures, which she says were taken just after her arrest, of
a dark bruise on her breast. Her supporters in court have taken to wearing paper
cutouts of hands pinned to their shirts above the right breast.

The continued show of support in the courtroom -- often a few dozen people -- is
part of an effort by Occupy Wall Street activists to turn Ms. McMillan's trial
into a cause célèbre, through press conferences, numerous news releases and a
website called Justice for Cecily.

What happened after her scuffle with Officer Bovell was partly caught on video
recordings by other protesters and their supporters. In court papers, Ms.
McMillan says she was thrown to the ground, hit by several officers and had a
seizure while being dragged to a city bus transporting those who were arrested.

An expletive-laden video posted on YouTube shows Ms. McMillan lying on the
ground amid a group of police officers as one of them tends to her. The officers
carry her to a sidewalk. A few minutes later, she rises to her knees and rocks
back and forth, as if hyperventilating, or in the grip of a panic attack, then
collapses again.

Ms. McMillan's lawyer, Martin Stolar, says his client was hurt far more than the
officer during the struggle, sustaining multiple bruises and scrapes to her
back, legs, ribs and the bruise on her breast.

According to a criminal complaint, Officer Bovell suffered ''swelling and
bruising and substantial pain to his left eye.''

The case went to trial before Justice Ronald A. Zweibel after Ms. McMillan
rejected an offer from the Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., for
probation in exchange for pleading guilty to assault. That would have meant a
felony record for her.

Mr. Vance's assistants have held firm to that position in talks with Mr. Stolar,
never offering a lower misdemeanor charge or to dismiss the case, as they have
done for scores of other protesters, Mr. Stolar said. ''Some cases you just
don't prosecute, but they made their decision,'' he said.

During the protests, which began in September 2011 and lasted three months, the
district attorney obtained indictments against seven protesters on charges of
assaulting a police officer. Two pleaded guilty, one woman was acquitted at
trial and three were allowed to plead guilty to misdemeanor charges.

The majority of the 2,644 protesters arrested never faced serious charges. The
district attorney declined to prosecute or dismissed 679 of the cases. An
additional 1,355 cases were placed in the category ''adjourned contemplating
dismissal,'' which means those people will not have police records.

Ms. McMillan, a labor organizer, was a nanny and a graduate student at the New
School when she was arrested. She has said she went to Zuccotti Park that night
to meet a friend, not to join the protest. It was St. Patrick's Day and she had
been out celebrating. But she had been involved in previous protests and became
embroiled in the melee.

Justice Zweibel has rejected a motion by Ms. McMillan to release Officer
Bovell's personnel file, saying it was irrelevant to the trial. The judge's
ruling said the officer had been accused in four cases of brutality, but none of
the allegations were proven.

On Wednesday, potential jurors were questioned about their views of the Occupy
Wall Street protests and of the police. Did they believe that police officers
generally told the truth? How did they rate the credibility of Occupy
protesters?

Most of them said they could be fair, even if they disliked the message of the
protests. But a few said they disagreed strongly.

''I'm against them, because I'm involved in Wall Street things and I'm on the
Wall Street side,'' said George Yih, a 72-year-old retired investor, who was
dismissed. ''I agree everyone has a freedom to do whatever they want. But what's
the purpose? You want to bring down Wall Street? The whole world is going to
come down.''

Jury selection is expected to resume on Friday.



                               
 Woman Found Guilty of Assaulting Officer at an Occupy Wall Street
Protest

 

A trial that had become a rallying point for many Occupy Wall Street activists
ended on Monday with a jury finding a protester guilty of assaulting a police
officer at Zuccotti Park in Manhattan in 2012.

A jury of eight women and four men took less than three hours to decide that the
protester, Cecily McMillan, 25, was responsible for assaulting the officer,
rejecting her contention that she had reacted instinctively when he grabbed her
breast during a protest on St. Patrick's Day. Ms. McMillan had said she could
not distinctly recall what happened amid the chaos of the night.

After the foreman announced the verdict in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, the
courtroom erupted in catcalls and derision from more than 50 of Ms. McMillan's
supporters. Several stood and shouted, ''Shame, shame, shame.''

Their anger peaked when Justice Ronald A. Zweibel ordered Ms. McMillan to be
held in jail until sentencing on May 19. The second-degree assault on a police
officer is a felony that carries a penalty of up to seven years in prison.

Ms. McMillan, wearing a frilly white dress and a stone-colored jacket, was led
away in handcuffs.

Outside the courthouse, Ms. McMillan's lawyer, Martin R. Stolar, said the judge
had made several mistakes that would become the basis of an appeal, among them
excluding evidence about other protesters who claimed the same officer had
abused them. ''I'm extremely disappointed that an innocent woman has been
convicted,'' Mr. Stolar said.

Ms. McMillan was arrested on March 17, 2012, the night hundreds of people
gathered to observe the founding of the Occupy Wall Street movement six months
earlier. The police swept through the park in Lower Manhattan, carrying out
scores of protesters, many of whom locked arms, went limp and refused to move.

The central question facing jurors was whether Ms. McMillan intentionally
elbowed the officer, Grantley Bovell, in the right eye while trying to escape
him as prosecutors charged, or reacted reflexively after the officer grabbed her
right breast, as she maintained.

Ms. McMillan, a volunteer labor organizer going to graduate school, testified
last month that she had been out drinking to celebrate St. Patrick's Day with a
college friend and they went to the park that night to meet a third friend, not
to join the protest.

Officer Bovell testified he encountered Ms. McMillan flailing her arms and
shouting curses at a female officer, who was never located and did not testify.
Officer Bovell said he told Ms. McMillan to leave the park, and when she
refused, put her hand on her shoulder to steer her out.

''I remember her saying to someone: 'Are you filming this? Are you filming
this?' '' the officer said. ''Then I remember the defendant crouching down and
lunging with her elbow and hitting me in the face.''

A video corroborated Officer Bovell's account. Ms. McMillan is seen bending her
knees, then throwing her right elbow into the officer's eye. She lurches
forward, runs a few steps, then is tackled by several officers.

Ms. McMillan testified she had no recollection of hitting the officer, but
recalled that she thought someone was trying to grope her. ''All of a sudden I
feel somebody grab me from behind, from my right breast, and pull me backward,''
she said.

Mr. Stolar introduced in evidence a picture of a bruise above Ms. McMillan's
right breast that was taken a day after she was arrested. ''This is the smoking
gun in the case,'' he said during closing arguments on Friday. ''She got grabbed
and she hit. That's an accident.''

Erin Choi, an assistant district attorney, in her summation, accused Ms.
McMillan of lying about Officer Bovell groping her for the sake of publicity.
''She wanted to pull the wool over your eyes,'' Ms. Choi told the jury.

Ms. McMillan was one of the few people arrested during the Occupy Wall Street
protests who opted for a trial. Mr. Stolar said his client chose to do so
because the Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., would not agree to
let her plead guilty to a misdemeanor.

Mr. Vance obtained indictments against seven Occupy Wall Street protesters in
2011 and 2012 on charges of assaulting police officers. Two pleaded guilty to
that charge, one woman was acquitted and three were allowed to plead guilty to
misdemeanor charges.

Outside the courthouse, many of Ms. McMillan's supporters expressed their anger
and frustration with the verdict; a few held up an enormous gold puppet of a
Lady Justice with badly tilting scales.



                               
 Occupy Has Mellow 2nd Birthday, With Appearance From the Hipster Cop

 

A sea of police officers formed around Zuccotti Park in Lower Manhattan on
Tuesday morning, prepared to keep the peace.

Around midday, officers massed at Washington Square Park and were bound for
Times Square later in the afternoon. They kept a wary eye on the Occupy Wall
Street protesters, who were holding a series of rallies to mark the second
anniversary of the movement.

But the day went by without much drama - at least not on the scale of incidents
in the past. One  moment that set off outraged complaints came when several
protesters were arrested downtown for violating a law that forbids groups of
three or more people wearing masks in public.

The turnout for Tuesday's protest was smaller than for the first anniversary
events last year, which caused some private grumbling among protesters. And it
was a far cry from the large crowds of the movement's early days in the fall of
2011, which came to an abrupt end when the police cleared the camp in an
overnight raid.

Still, the energy was high as the organizers of the event addressed a crowd of
at least 100 at the morning gathering downtown.

"We're still here! Still fighting! Still strong! Still Occupy!" shouted Sumumba
Sobukwe, a leader of the group, wearing aviator sunglasses and a pork pie hat.

The rally doubled as a book release party to promote "Occupy Finance," a new
handbook produced by a subset of the movement known as the alternative banking
group. The book, copies of which were available free, offers a guide to the
financial system and the events surrounding the crisis, and it proposes a policy
framework that it calls "popular regulation."

Complex topics like synthetic collateralized debt obligations are discussed at
length in the book, but the writers say they want the book to appeal to a
general audience.

"If this seems immensely complicated and confusing, it's because it is," the
book says, "and it was designed to be that way."

At the end, the book advises readers how to combat "well-informed futility
syndrome."

A lead author of the book, Cathy O'Neil, has a background in finance, working at
one point at the hedge fund D.E. Shaw. These days, however, she is deeply
involved in the Occupy movement, running weekly discussions about finance in a
room at Columbia University that are open to the public.

Even bankers have come to these sessions, people Ms. O'Neil described in an
interview on Tuesday as "independent thinkers" from firms like BNP Paribas,
JPMorgan Chase and Morgan Stanley.

"I have never met anyone in finance who is not sympathetic to Occupy," she said.

While the crowd may have been smaller on Tuesday, the familiar features of
Occupy Wall Street were on display. Protesters held signs with slogans like "Too
big to fail is too big" and sang folk songs accompanied by acoustic guitar.

"Even though there aren't as many people as last year, it still feels strong,"
said Katrina Oaks, a 27-year-old protester from Daytona, Fla.

Within the last week, she estimated, the number of people sleeping in front of
banks in lower Manhattan grew to about 50 from 30, as protesters arrived from
other parts of the country.

Another protester, Fury Young, 24, said a recent study about income inequality
showed that the issues of the movement remained as relevant as ever. Mr. Young,
who grew up on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, said he had watched the area
become an "emerald city for the wealthy."

"Since Occupy started, activism has become my life's vocation," he said, though
he added that he also works as a set builder.

One face stood out from the others on Tuesday: the hipster cop.

Hipster cop sighting. #hipstercop #ows http://t.co/Op3MBDPKDV

- Will Alden (@williamalden)17 Sep 13

That would be Rick Lee, a detective in the First Precinct, who gained a measure
of fame in 2011 after photographs circulated online showing his unusually
fashionable attire. While the Occupy protesters generally have an adversarial
stance toward the police, it's more complicated with Mr. Lee - more of a
love-hate relationship.

On Tuesday, Mr. Lee was outfitted in a light blue shirt and navy cardigan from
Ralph Lauren, and a striped tie and grey trousers from Brooks Brothers. His
wingtip shoes were from Ralph Lauren as well.

As for his jacket?

That was issued by the N.Y.P.D.



     ·    After Eviction, Zuccotti Protesters Scramble to Respond
     ·    Proudly Private, a Wall Street Brokerage Firm Marches On



                               
 New York Today: De Blasio and Occupy Wall Street

 

Updated 11:31 a.m. |  Two years ago today, demonstrators gathered in the
financial district to protest income inequality and the influence of money on
politics.

It was the birth of Occupy Wall Street.

Among the movement's early defenders was Bill de Blasio, the city's public
advocate - and now the Democratic mayoral candidate.

And so today presents a moment to examine what Mr. de Blasio's role in Occupy
Wall Street might mean for the race.

In October 2011, when the authorities threatened to halt the occupation of
Zuccotti Park, Mr. de Blasio spoke there.

He urged officials to honor a "heartfelt movement that's speaking to what people
are feeling all over this country."

In recent weeks, Mr. de Blasio's proposal to tax the 1 percent has spurred his
campaign.

(His critics, it's worth noting, say he has accepted plenty of campaign money
from corporate interests.)

Today's anniversary is being marked with rallies.

"Occupy Wall Street pulled the growing crisis of income inequality out into the
light of day," Mr. de Blasio said in a statement on Monday.

His Republican opponent, Joseph J. Lhota, told reporters, "Bill de Blasio's
change is radical. My change is practical."

Here's what else you need to know for Tuesday.

WEATHER

Kind of magnificent. After a chilly morning - a near-record-low of 49 degrees at
Kennedy Airport - sunny and breezy today with a high of 68.

TRANSIT & TRAFFIC

Mass Transit [11:31] Delays on southbound F, G, N, Q and R trains. Also on the 4
and 5 southbound trains starting at 14th Street. Click for latest M.T.A. status.

Roads [11:31] Delays of 50 minutes traveling eastbound on the Gowanus
Expressway. Click for traffic map or radio report on the 1s.

Alternate-side parking is  in effect  today, though not Thursday or Friday.

COMING UP TODAY

Mayor Bloomberg commemorates the city's five-millionth ton of recycled paper at
a paper mill on Staten Island.

Mr. Lhota heads into Democratic territory, meeting with the city's biggest
municipal-employee union and then the Rev. Al Sharpton.

Christine C. Quinn is expected to endorse Mr. de Blasio.

Congress members gather in Queens to oppose changes in flight paths into the
airports without environmental reviews. (They may need to yell to be heard.)

The Landmarks Preservation Commission discusses the designation of buildings on
the east side of Midtown, including the Graybar Building, and the expansion of
the Park Slope historic district.

The parks department wants you to help plant flowers and ground cover around
trees on the Lower East Side. 3 p.m. at Sauer Park. [Free. Click to register.]

"Anna Nicole," a tabloid-inspired opera about Anna Nicole Smith, opens at the
Brooklyn Academy of Music. 7:30 p.m. [Click for ticket info]

"Brooklyn Nine-Nine," a sitcom about a fictitious police precinct starring Andy
Samberg and Andre Braugher, premieres on Fox at 8:30 p.m. "Mild, affable and
familiar," says The New York Times.

For more events, see The New York Times's Arts & Entertainment guide.

IN THE NEWS

The man who killed 12 people at the Washington Navy Yard was a Queens native who
once had a permit to fire rifles at New York City gun ranges. [DNA Info]

Assemblyman William F. Boyland Jr. of Brooklyn is expected to plead guilty to
corruption charges. [Daily News]

A week after a suspicious house fire in the Bronx, three bodies were discovered
in the wreckage. [New York Times]

Scraps from swanky city restaurants are being fed to chickens to improve their
meat. [New York Times]

A flock of concrete sheep and a lawn have taken over a former gas station in
Chelsea. [Gothamist]

An assault suspect's attempt to use of a pile of gold to make bail struck a
Manhattan judge as "fishy." [New York Times]

AND FINALLY...

The ad begins with a car pulling up to a crossing as a train approaches.

The driver maneuvers around the barrier.

The train plows into the car.

This new 16-second spot, "Wait for the Gate," is the Long Island Rail Road's way
of warning motorists of the perils of these crossings.

The crash is simulated, but the still photo at the end is not. It shows the
aftermath of a fatal collision.

Joseph Burgess and Matt Flegenheimer contributed reporting.

New York Today is a morning roundup that stays live from 6 a.m. till about noon.

What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, e-mail us at
nytoday@nytimes.com or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday.

Find us on weekdays at nytimes.com/nytoday.



                               
 Officer Stands by His Account of Protest Scuffle

 

A New York City police officer admitted in court on Wednesday that he had fixed
several traffic tickets before 2011, but said that he had told the truth about
being assaulted by an Occupy Wall Street protester in 2012.

Testifying in Manhattan Criminal Court against Cecily McMillan, Officer Grantley
Bovell conceded that he had been wrong in 2010 when he fixed two parking tickets
for himself and a speeding ticket for a female friend.

''It shouldn't have been done,'' he said under cross-examination by Martin
Stolar, Ms. McMillan's lawyer. ''It was a bad choice.''

Officer Bovell said that the police department's Internal Affairs Division had
suspended him for five days without pay, docked him 25 vacation days, rescinded
his second job as a bank security guard and put him on probation for a year. He
said that in addition to the three tickets that he was penalized for, he had
also fixed three other parking tickets. He said it had been part of the Bronx
40th Precinct's culture of ''police courtesy.''

Jurors were also shown several YouTube videos of Officer Bovell, 35, in March
2012 getting elbowed in his left eye by Ms. McMillan, 25, who is charged with
assaulting a police officer. She has maintained that Officer Bovell groped her
breast, and that she reacted without knowing he was a police officer. He has
denied that he touched her breast.

The shaky videos showed Ms. McMillan, a labor organizer, in a bright green
dress, jumping back and planting her elbow in Officer Bovell's face.

''She crouched down and lunged backward, elbowing me in the eye,'' Officer
Bovell said. ''It's like a white light in the face.''

He testified that he had placed his left hand on Ms. McMillan's right shoulder
to escort her out of Zuccotti Park after she refused to leave. The pixelated,
nighttime videos showed Officer Bovell behind Ms. McMillan, in a scrum of around
a dozen officers struggling against screaming protesters. The videos did not
appear to answer the question of whether Ms. McMillan's breast was touched. They
do show her being tackled by officers as she tried to run away.

Ms. McMillan wept and turned her head as a video showed her on the ground,
surrounded by police officers, being handcuffed by Officer Bovell. A voice on
the video yelled, ''There's Cecily, is she getting beat up?''

Assistant District Attorney Erin Choi also showed pictures taken later of
Officer Bovell's left eyelid, which was swollen and had a cut below it. He
testified that he suffered pain for a week, and saw a doctor later because his
eyelid started to spasm. Ms. Choi asked Officer Bovell how Ms. McMillan, several
inches shorter than the officer, was able to reach his eye with her elbow.

''Jumping,'' he said.

Ms. McMillan is among the few Occupy Wall Street protesters to opt for a trial.
She has said she did not want to plead guilty and have a felony on her record.
Of around 2,600 protesters arrested, 700 saw their charges dismissed and more
than 1,300 will have their records cleared if they are not convicted of any
crimes in the near future.



                               
 Protester Says She Doesn't Recall Hitting Officer With Elbow

 

Cecily McMillan, the Occupy Wall Street protester charged with assaulting a New
York City police officer, testified on Wednesday that she has no recollection of
blackening the officer's eye with her elbow. Having watched a video of the
episode, though, she does not deny doing it.

''As I have no memory of my elbow coming into contact with the officer's face,''
she said, ''I've watched it hundreds of times trying to make sense of what
happened.''

On this ninth day of testimony, Ms. McMillan, 25, stood by her claim that she
reacted during a clearing out of Zuccotti Park on March 17, 2012, after Officer
Grantley Bovell grabbed her breast.

''All of the sudden I feel somebody grab me from behind, from my right breast,
and pull me backward,'' she said. ''I was lifted in the air and then I felt my
face slammed to the ground.''

Ms. McMillan said she had spent that St. Patrick's Day on a pub crawl with a
visiting friend. They took a cab to Zuccotti Park in the hopes of finding
another friend, and a less crowded Lower Manhattan bar. The friend, Lara
Wasserman, an opera singer, testified Wednesday that she and Ms. McMillan each
had about seven beers in the four hours before the incident. When asked by a
defense lawyer, Martin R. Stolar, if that was excessive, Ms. Wasserman said,
''No, we went to school in Wisconsin.''

Closing arguments are expected to begin Friday.

Ms. McMillan, a labor organizer who faces seven years in prison if convicted,
expressed remorse.

''I'm really sorry that officer got hurt,'' she said. ''People are doing their
jobs; stuff happens.''

She added that part of what drew her to the protests at Zuccotti Park was the
hope of pushing the city to negotiate better contracts for its police officers.

On cross-examination, Assistant District Attorney Erin Choi hammered on records
of Ms. McMillan's medical examinations from the days right after her arrest.
None specified that her breast was groped.

''It says I was abused,'' Ms. McMillan said. ''But it does not say specifically
my breast.''

Earlier, Officer Bovell testified that he put his hand on Ms. McMillan's
shoulder to steer her out of the park after she refused a command to leave from
a second officer. He also admitted to being suspended for several days by the
Police Department for fixing traffic tickets in 2010.

An onlooker's video of the episode appeared to show Ms. McMillan elbow Officer
Bovell's face, run several steps, and get tackled by several officers.

Of the thousands of people arrested at Occupy Wall Street, she is just one of a
few who opted for a trial. She did so, she has said, because accepting the
state's plea deal to avoid jail would have put a felony on her record.

Ms. McMillan said while her memories of that day -- the six-month anniversary of
Occupy Wall Street -- are just ''visceral blurs,'' her interpretation of the
video was that Officer Bovell grabbed her ''forcefully from behind'' and caused
her knees to buckle just before she struck backward.

''I was a cheerleader; I know how to jump,'' she said. ''But I'm a completely
nonviolent activist and I've been through extensive training to make sure that
no part of my body could ever be used to hurt others.''



                               
 Divergent Accounts of Plea Negotiations in a Protester's Assault Case

 

The outrage among Occupy Wall Street sympathizers about the prosecution of
Cecily McMillan for assaulting a police officer during a protest in Zuccotti
Park has rested largely on a single idea: that zealous prosecutors, seeking to
make an example of Ms. McMillan, had refused during negotiations to let her
plead guilty to anything less than a felony.

The Manhattan district attorney's office, however, now says that Ms. McMillan
was offered the same bargain as other Occupy protesters accused of hitting
police officers: plead guilty to a misdemeanor assault in return for avoiding
jail.

''This defendant was offered the opportunity to plead to a lesser charge, but
chose to exercise her constitutional right to go to trial, and tell her side of
the story,'' Erin Duggan Kramer, the deputy chief of staff in the office, said
in a statement on Friday. ''Twelve jurors rejected her version, and convicted
her of a violent felony.''

Ms. McMillan's lawyer, Martin Stolar, disputes the prosecution's account of plea
negotiations. He said that the prosecutors, Erin Choi and Shanda Strain, never
made a firm offer before trial that would have let Ms. McMillan plead guilty to
a misdemeanor in return for probation.

''The only offer made was, 'Plead to a felony and take probation,' or, 'If she
would agree to plead to a misdemeanor, we would consider whether to accept,' ''
he said.

Ms. McMillan, 25, is scheduled to be sentenced Monday morning before Justice
Ronald Zweibel in State Supreme Court in Manhattan. She faces up to seven years
in prison, though the judge could also opt to give her as little as one day in
jail and probation. If her trial and the aftermath serve as a guide, the
courtroom will be packed with her supporters, who have urged Justice Zweibel to
be lenient.

Mr. Stolar said he would argue at sentencing that Ms. McMillan's decision to go
to trial should not be held against her. If prosecutors push for state prison
time, he said, they will be seeking ''to punish someone for having the nerve to
go to trial.''

That Ms. McMillan, a graduate student and volunteer labor organizer, has come to
embody the frustrations of those arrested during the protests is a quirk of
fate; according to her testimony, she never intended to join the civil
disobedience that night in 2012.

Instead, she had been out celebrating St. Patrick's Day. She said she went to
the park to meet a friend and found herself in a confrontation with an officer,
Grantley Bovell. Mr. Bovell testified that Ms. McMillan elbowed him in the eye
as he escorted her out of the park. An onlooker's videotape supported his
account. For her part, Ms. McMillan said she lashed out at the officer
instinctively after he groped her right breast.

Two weeks ago, a jury determined Ms. McMillan had deliberately hit the officer.
She was remanded to jail to await her sentence as her supporters screamed,
''Shame! Shame! Shame!'' at the judge.

In news conferences, letters and online writings, Ms. McMillan's supporters have
urged Justice Zweibel to give her community service and probation rather than a
prison sentence. They include five City Council members, the film director Spike
Jonze, the former Sonic Youth guitarist Kim Gordon, two members of the Russian
punk art group Pussy Riot (who visited her at Rikers Island) and 160,000 people
who signed an online petition. Even one of the jurors, who said he spoke for
nine members of the panel, has written a letter to the judge urging leniency.

Six other Occupy Wall Street protesters were charged with assaulting police
officers. Only one, Diana Smith, 33, a graphic artist from Brooklyn, took a
similar stand to Ms. McMillan's and chose to go to trial.

Like Ms. McMillan, Ms. Smith took the witness stand and claimed the police had
assaulted her, not the other way around. She also had turned down a deal under
which she would have pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor and avoided jail.

After a weeklong trial in April 2013, a jury acquitted Ms. Smith of the felony
but found her guilty of a misdemeanor: obstruction of governmental
administration. Justice Michael Sonberg sentenced her to 10 days of community
service and three years of probation. Only a handful of fellow protesters showed
up in court.

''She chose to go to trial and it worked out in her favor,'' Ms. Smith's lawyer,
Anthony Cecutti, said. ''She was willing to put a felony conviction and jail
time on the line.''

Five other protesters who were charged with attacking officers accepted offers
from the Manhattan district attorney's office that kept them out of state prison
and left them without a felony conviction on their records.

Damien Guarniere, a man in his 40s from North Carolina, ended up serving time: a
90-day stint in city jail for obstructing governmental administration. He was
accused of knocking a police officer to the ground and punching him the face.

Nicholas Thommen, a war veteran and former Marine from Oregon, was accused of
swinging a pole at two undercover detectives during a march near Astor Place in
the East Village.

Mr. Thommen reached an agreement with prosecutors to plead guilty to the felony
assault charge with the understanding that, after he did 100 hours of community
service, he could withdraw that plea and plead guilty to a disorderly conduct
violation instead. Known colloquially in criminal court as a ''repleader,'' this
arrangement is common for first time offenders, his lawyer, Edward Donlon, said.

Justin Wooten, a student at Montclair State University who admitted he punched
an officer, pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor and received community service and
probation.

Two other men who plead guilty to assaulting officers -- Nkrumah Tinsley of the
Bronx and Zachary Miller of Berkeley, Calif. -- were offered similar
opportunities by prosecutors to replead to a misdemeanor charge after doing
community service, their lawyers and prosecutors said.

Ms. Duggan Kramer pointed out that of the 2,644 people arrested during Occupy
Wall Street protests, prosecutors only sought convictions in 421 cases; the rest
were either dropped or adjourned in contemplation of dismissal. Of the 421
cases, 354 pleaded guilty, 56 were convicted at trial and 11 were acquitted.



                               
 Despite Calls for Release, Activist in Occupy Case Gets Three Months

 

A woman whose assault case had become a cause célèbre, first among Occupy Wall
Street supporters and then expanding well beyond the movement, was sentenced to
three months in jail on Monday, as a judge rejected calls for her immediate
release.

The woman, Cecily McMillan, 25, a graduate student at the New School and a
volunteer labor organizer, was convicted two weeks ago of assaulting a police
officer at Zuccotti Park in Manhattan in 2012.

Before the sentence was delivered, Ms. McMillan remained mostly defiant, even as
she characterized the encounter with the officer as ''an accident.''

''I cannot confess to a crime I did not commit,'' she said in State Supreme
Court in Manhattan.

But Justice Ronald A. Zweibel, who had remanded Ms. McMillan on May 5 after the
four-week trial, imposed the jail sentence that prosecutors had requested,
rather than release her on probation, as her lawyers had urged. She could have
faced a maximum of seven years for the second-degree assault.

''A civilized society must not allow an assault to be committed under the guise
of civil disobedience,'' Justice Zweibel said.

The trial became a rallying point among people who sympathized with the Occupy
Wall Street protests of 2011 and 2012, which called attention to the gap between
rich and poor and criticized the government bailout of big banks. Many of Ms.
McMillan's supporters saw in her a potent symbol of the police crackdown that
ended the occupation of Zuccotti Park and snuffed out the protest's momentum.

Upon her conviction, Ms. McMillan's supporters wrote scores of letters to
Justice Zweibel, urging him to be lenient. Five City Council members delivered
the same message on the steps of City Hall, and the Russian activists Pussy
Riot, who were recently imprisoned for criticizing President Vladimir Putin,
visited her on Rikers Island and called for her release. An online petition
calling for leniency garnered 160,000 signatures.

Ms. McMillan had testified that she reflexively struck the officer, Grantley
Bovell, with her elbow after he groped her breast, a charge he denied. She told
the jury that she had been out drinking to celebrate St. Patrick's Day before
she went to the park, and had never intended to join a protest; she was merely
meeting a friend and had plans to continue a pub-crawl.

Officer Bovell testified that he encountered Ms. McMillan yelling and waving her
arms at another officer in Zuccotti Park, shortly after the police moved in to
arrest dozens of people who were holding a rally to celebrate the founding of
the Occupy Wall Street movement six months earlier.

The officer said he was escorting Ms. McMillan out of the park, his hand on her
shoulder, when she suddenly said, ''Are you filming this? Are you filming
this?'' then crouched down, leapt up and struck his face with her elbow. A
grainy video shot by an onlooker appeared to corroborate his version of events.

She ran a few steps before being tackled by Officer Bovell. A few minutes later,
she appeared to have what looked like a seizure as she was being loaded onto a
bus with other protesters. Another officer took her to a hospital.

Before sentencing, Shanda Strain, an assistant district attorney, said Ms.
McMillan deserved a three-month stay in jail because she had falsely accused
Officer Bovell of grabbing her breast, lying under oath ''to avoid
responsibility for her actions.''

''This trial was not a referendum on a large social cause or movement, though
the defendant tried and continues to try to make it just that,'' Ms. Strain
said. Then she added, ''In essence, she has repeatedly argued that the rules
should not apply to everyone equally -- that defendants who are politically
motivated deserve special treatment.''

Ms. McMillan's lawyer, Martin Stolar, denied she had purposely gone to trial to
bring attention to her political views. ''She has no desire to be a martyr,'' he
said.

Mr. Stolar told the judge that the bruises and mental trauma that Ms. McMillan
had suffered during her arrest were punishment enough.

''You touch a police officer and get the hell beat out of you,'' he said outside
court. ''That's what happened to her. That's enough of a deterrent.''

Ms. McMillan also received five years of probation, and was ordered to undergo a
mental-health evaluation and treatment. Mr. Stolar said he had filed a notice of
intent to appeal the verdict, and had asked that his client be granted bail
pending the appeal.

As Ms. McMillan was led out of the court in handcuffs to continue her sentence
on Rikers Island, some of her supporters began to sing ''We Shall Not Be
Moved,'' the famous protest song, as they filed out of court.

About 100 of Ms. McMillan's supporters gathered across the street from the
courthouse with signs with messages such as, ''Cecily Is Innocent.'' They also
sang songs and gave speeches in solidarity.

''What Cecily continues to endure can happen to any woman who challenges the
corporate state,'' Lucy Parks, a close friend of Ms. McMillan's, bellowed to the
crowd. ''The district attorney and the courts want to make an example of
Cecily.''



                              
 City Settles Occupy Protesters' False-Arrest Lawsuit

 

The City of New York has agreed to pay nearly $600,000 to resolve a lawsuit
accusing police officers of falsely arresting Occupy Wall Street participants
who were walking on a sidewalk in the East Village on New Year's Day 2012.

Lawyers for the plaintiffs said on Tuesday that the settlements were the biggest
yet connected to claims stemming from Occupy Wall Street. Officials from the
city's Law Department and the Office of the Comptroller could not immediately
verify that assertion, saying they do not track Occupy settlements as a
category.

Last year, the city agreed to pay $230,000 to resolve a suit stemming from the
loss or destruction of books from the Occupy Wall Street library. A group called
Global Revolution was also paid $75,000 for lost computer equipment. Other
lawsuits are pending, including a class-action claim stemming from the arrests
of about 700 people while they marched on the Brooklyn Bridge roadway on Oct. 1,
2011.

The lawsuit stems from the morning of Jan. 1, 2012, after a turbulent evening at
Zuccotti Park, where hundreds of protesters gathered, some dismantling metal
barricades ringing the park and scuffling with police officers. After the police
cleared the park, about 200 protesters marched to the East Village, accompanied
by a large number of officers on foot and in vehicles.

At the corner of Second Avenue and 13th Street, officers halted the marchers as
they walked along a sidewalk. The complaint filed by the plaintiffs stated that
the officers surrounded the group and ordered them to disperse despite not
allowing them to do so. They were then arrested and charged with disorderly
conduct, the complaint said, adding that the Manhattan district attorney's
office had declined to prosecute those cases.

A video on Ustream showed senior police officials, including James P. Hall, then
the chief of patrol, consulting as the marchers chanted: ''Are we being
detained? Are we free to go?'' A police captain told the marchers that they were
blocking the sidewalk and pedestrian traffic. A few moments later, the video
showed, officers moved in and began making arrests.

Twelve plaintiffs will receive $20,000 apiece; two participants who agreed to
settlements earlier will receive $5,000 apiece. The city has also agreed to pay
$333,000 in legal fees.

''In this case and many others, we have seen that the police do not understand
the rights afforded individuals under the Constitution, especially with respect
to expressive speech activity,'' said Wylie Stecklow, the lead plaintiffs'
lawyer on the case. ''Our hope is that this is the starting point for police
retraining.''

Andrew Lucas, a lawyer for the city, said that the lawsuit involved ''a
fast-evolving, complicated policing situation,'' and added: ''Settlement was in
all parties' best interest.''



                              
 Occupy Wall Street Protester Is Out of Jail, but Back in Court

 

She was a cause célèbre of the Occupy Wall Street movement, first when she was
arrested for striking a police officer during a protest at Zuccotti Park in
Manhattan in 2012, and then for her conviction on a felony assault charge as a
result of that incident.

And when Cecily McMillan was sentenced in May to three months in jail and five
years' probation, additional outrage followed -- none of it more strident than
what came from Ms. McMillan herself, who said she was being unfairly singled out
for punishment.

On Thursday, two weeks after her release from Rikers Island, Ms. McMillan, 25,
was in Criminal Court in Manhattan to deal with a second case involving a
confrontation with the police.

On Dec. 7, 2013, Ms. McMillan was arrested outside a transit police district
station at Union Square and charged with obstructing governmental
administration, a misdemeanor. According to the criminal complaint against her,
the arrest came after Ms. McMillan tried to intervene when a police officer
asked two people who had walked into the Union Square subway station through an
open emergency gate for identification.

The officer, Luis Castillo, said in the complaint that Ms. McMillan had
repeatedly told the two people to withhold their identification and had said, in
substance: ''I know the law. I'm a lawyer. Don't cooperate.'' (In fact, Ms.
McMillan is a graduate student at the New School.)

Officer Castillo said in the complaint that when he tried to escort the two
people to the precinct command station to conduct a warrant check, Ms. McMillan
tried to block his path and refused to move. Once at the station, the complaint
says, Ms. McMillan failed to heed orders from the police to stay outside,
saying: ''Let me in. Don't cooperate with them.'' It was at that point that she
was arrested, according to the complaint.

Prosecutors noted the incident in a sentencing memo given to the court at Ms.
McMillan's earlier trial. The memo also stated that she had yelled at the police
in Union Square ''that she hoped their wives and children died.''

''This new arrest mirrors what was on display throughout the trial: the
defendant's utter contempt for the police and the important job they do on a
daily basis,'' the sentencing memo continued.

Unlike the atmosphere that surrounded Ms. McMillan's court appearances in the
Zuccotti Park case, her arrival at the courthouse on Thursday for a scheduled
pretrial hearing yielded no fanfare. The proceedings were brief: Prosecutors
agreed to reschedule the hearing to Sept. 15, after Ms. McMillan's lawyer,
Martin Stolar, told the court that he had not had enough time to discuss the
case with his client because she had been in Georgia on family business.

Outside court, Mr. Stolar said he was trying to get Ms. McMillan's probation
moved to Atlanta because of safety concerns.

''I don't feel safe to leave my house,'' Ms. McMillan said. ''I don't feel like
a safe citizen in New York City.''

Ms. McMillan said that she felt a sense of being in captivity even after being
released from jail. ''I'm happy to be out, but I certainly don't exactly feel
free,'' she said. ''I'm still going to have to come in here. I mean, I have
probation; that is five years. We've set up an appeals case that we're hoping to
overturn the felony conviction. And beyond this, I'm facing another year in
Rikers with this case. So no, I'm not free.''

Ms. McMillan said she was working on a thesis in the form of a book proposal
about the Occupy Wall Street protests and her ideas about bringing reform to the
jail system.

''I'm fighting to make some changes to the conditions that I saw within
Rikers,'' she said, adding that she had lost 17 pounds while in jail as a result
of eating what she described as ''plastic cabbage'' and ''hardened bread with
tomato paste syringed in.''



                              
 Jury Selection Begins in SAC Insider Trading Trial

 

Updated, 5:36 p.m. |

Selection of a 12-member jury from a pool of about 100 people began on Tuesday
at the insider trading trial of Michael S. Steinberg, a former SAC Capital
Advisors portfolio manager.

Dressed conservatively in a slightly wrinkled gray suit, white shirt and blue
tie, the 41-year-old Mr. Steinberg  appeared confident as he stood at the
defense table, flanked by three of his lawyers, including the lead lawyer, Barry
H. Berke. With his hands in his pockets, he swayed from side to side and
occasionally flashed a smile as he waited for Judge Richard J. Sullivan to enter
the courtroom at the federal courthouse in Lower Manhattan.

The trial of Mr. Steinberg is at the center of a multiyear investigation by the
Justice Department into insider trading at SAC Capital. Six of the hedge fund's
traders have pleaded guilty to securities fraud and, nearly two weeks ago, the
firm agreed to pay $1.2 billion and plead guilty to five counts of insider
trading violations.

Mr. Steinberg, the most senior former employee at SAC Capital to be charged, has
been accused of trading the stocks of technology companies like Dell after
receiving confidential information about their earnings.  He is the first former
SAC employee to stand trial, and prosecutors hope his case will shine a light on
the culture that existed at the hedge fund.

Two assistant United States attorneys, Antonia Apps and Harry Chernoff, are
trying the case for the government and were joined on Tuesday by an F.B.I.
special agent, John Radzicki.

By the end of the day, a little after 5 p.m., the judge had questioned 50
potential jurors and expected to resume the selection process on Wednesday. The
judge indicated that he wanted to keep as many and as broad a selection of juror
candidates as possible. He also told the jury pool that he expected the trial to
run about four and a half weeks.

The process began at 10:45 a.m., as jury candidates filtered through the wood-
and marble-paneled room on the third floor of the courthouse to take their seats
in the gallery. By early afternoon, the first pool of 34 candidates had been
questioned. Of those, 18 were seated in the jury box to Judge Sullivan's left.

Among the 70 questions on a list, Judge Sullivan asked each potential juror
whether he or she had heard, read or seen reports in the media about Mr.
Steinberg, the charges against him or the case generally.  Five members of the
group raised their hands.

The defense team, in several instances, raised concerns that recent media
coverage of SAC's guilty plea might influence jurors in Mr. Steinberg's case.

Potential jurors were also asked whether they had seen media reports about
Steven A. Cohen, the hedge fund's founder. To this question, one man said he had
read about the sale of some of Mr. Cohen's art at Christie's and Sotheby's
auctions last week.

The first group of potential jurors was a mixed lot, including one young man who
said he had participated in Occupy Wall Street and is an actor and people who
had themselves been investigated by the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Many in the pool disclosed that they had ties to Wall Street. Two said they were
employed or had been employed by a hedge fund, while one man said he was the
head of a small investment bank and a handful of people gave the details of
their indirect ties to the financial world. One woman said she had once worked
for Julian Robertson, the founder of the hedge fund Tiger Management, and one
man told the judge his friend's daughter was dating a compliance officer at SAC
Capital.

Many of the questions reflected the tedium of the administrative process as
Judge Sullivan went through all manner of questions to determine any biases
among the jurors. There was a comic moment when one juror, a tax lawyer, said he
had strong views about the Internal Revenue Service. "That's a shocker," Judge
Sullivan shot back.

Within the group, two jurors had been investigated by the S.E.C., while the
juror who said his friend's daughter was dating an SAC employee said he had a
very strong bias against the commission.

By the end of the day, Judge Sullivan had dismissed 15 men and women from the
pool of candidates.

An earlier version of this post misstated Michael S. Steinberg's age. He is 41
years old, not 40.



     ·    The Impact of the Settlement on SAC Capital and Cohen
     ·    Hedge Fund, Under Fire, Braces for Withdrawals



                              
 An Occupy Wall Street Offshoot Has Its Day

 

Simon Johnson, former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, is the
Ronald A. Kurtz professor of entrepreneurship at the M.I.T. Sloan School of
Management and co-author of "White House Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our
National Debt, and Why It Matters to You."

There is a tendency in recent American political discourse to use the term
"populism" as a form of putdown. The implication is that that while populists
may have some legitimate grievances, they are rebelling in a disorganized and
ill-informed way. As President Obama implied in early 2009, the populists have
pitchforks, while his administration represented the responsible mainstream.

This is an inaccurate portrayal of populism in America, both historically and
today. Occupy Wall Street is a perfect example. To be sure, part of that 2011
movement was purely about expressing frustration - justified frustration - at
how very powerful people in the finance sector had behaved and continue to
behave. But the movement also led to an important offshoot or related
development, Occupy the S.E.C., which focused on the Securities and Exchange
Commission.

This group wrote a brilliant commentary on the originally proposed Volcker Rule,
which is designed to limit proprietary trading and other forms of excessive
risk-taking at very large banks. Their comments, along with the work of others
who wanted more effective reform, were helpful in pushing officials toward the
final Volcker Rule, which was just unveiled.

At a hearing of the House Committee on Financial Services on Wednesday, at which
I testified, some technical issues were raised by representatives of big banks
and parts of the securities industry, but the broad outlines of the Volcker Rule
are no longer resisted. When asked, none of the witnesses suggested that the
Volcker Rule should be repealed. This is a big victory for Occupy the S.E.C. and
all its allies.

This point is well made by Alexis Goldstein, writing in The Nation. Ms.
Goldstein was a co-author of the original Occupy the S.E.C. letter (see her
article for relevant links) and reading that letter or her column makes it clear
why this form of "populism" has been so effective.

Ms. Goldstein and her colleagues are experts; they worked on Wall Street and, as
a result, have compelling and highly relevant insights into how the very large
trading operations there really work. This is not inside information so much as
it is a granular understanding of who takes very large risks and why these so
often go wrong.

Of course, articulate criticism in a vacuum or in an authoritarian setting will
often achieve nothing - at least not for decades. But in our democracy, with a
wide variety of people in regulatory positions, well-informed outside voices
help insiders push for sensible reforms.

The same process lies behind every successful engagement between the
International Monetary Fund and a country that is struggling to get its economic
policies in order. When and if some sensible people try to push for reform, they
are helped if well-informed pressure is brought to bear from the outside. In
particular, when strong vested interests resist change - again, a common
experience around the world - it is important to have someone pushing hard the
other way.

Of course, Occupy the S.E.C. had many friends and allies in working for a strong
Volcker Rule. Paul Volcker has unequaled prestige among economic policy makers.
Senators Carl Levin of Michigan and Jeff Merkley of Oregon, both Democrats,
devised legislative language and fought to get this into Dodd-Frank. Within
official circles, Gary Gensler played an important role in keeping the Volcker
Rule meaningful, and the late arrival of Kara Stein at the S.E.C. was essential
for strengthening some crucial details.

And, as Ms. Goldstein points out, Better Markets - a pro-reform group headed by
Dennis Kelleher - has been tireless in pushing for a better Volcker Rule.
(Caitlin Kline, a co-author of the Occupy the S.E.C. letter on the Volcker Rule,
now works at Better Markets.)The groups Public Citizen and Americans for
Financial Reform have also been consistently helpful.

In terms of historical comparisons, Occupy the S.E.C. reminds me of various
elements of populism that the United States experienced at the end of the 19th
and beginning of the 20th centuries.

Those who criticized concentrated economic and financial power were not held in
esteem by J.P. Morgan and his friends. But antitrust policies made a lot of
sense when they began to be carried out under President Theodore Roosevelt - and
I don't think anyone would want to go back to the levels of monopoly permitted
before 1900.

And important figures in those populist circles, such as Louis Brandeis, who
wrote brilliantly on financial-sector issues, went on to play leading roles in
making responsible economic policy. (Brandeis, of course, was subsequently
appointed to the Supreme Court.)

The modern world is complicated, but so it was in 1900, too. The details of
policy will be made by experts, which is why it is so important to have experts
on the outside, providing detailed critiques and guidance. (And Occupy the
S.E.C. has already published a number of important concerns about how the
published rule will be implemented..)

Whether the Volcker Rule will actually work remains to be seen; a lot depends on
how it will be put in effect by regulators. But the fact that Occupy the S.E.C.
is watching carefully from the outside should give us greater confidence that at
least this element of financial reform will prove helpful.



     ·    A Modest Volcker Rule
     ·    Making the Volcker Rule Work
     ·    Getting the Volcker Rule Done
     ·    Choosing the Next Head of the Federal Reserve
     ·    The Fed Shifts Ground on Big Banks



                              
 Officer Testifies of Scuffle During Wall Street Protest

 

It was St. Patrick's Day 2012, and after spending his afternoon looking for
intoxicated people at Pennsylvania Station, Officer Grantley Bovell was deployed
to Lower Manhattan to help clear Zuccotti Park of scores of protesters who had
gathered to mark the six-month anniversary of the Occupy Wall Street movement.

When Officer Bovell entered the park with dozens of his colleagues, he said, he
saw a young woman in the crowd, flailing her arms and shouting curses at a
female officer. Officer Bovell approached the shouting woman and, he testified
Monday, calmly tried to inform her that she had to leave the park, which, he
added, was scheduled for a cleaning. He said he told her that she was ''more
than welcome'' to return after the cleaning was done.

What followed the exchange between them remains a dispute and stands as the
central question at the young woman's criminal trial, which is underway at State
Supreme Court in Manhattan. Taking the stand to give his account, Officer Bovell
said that as he tried to escort the woman, Cecily McMillan, from the park, she
whirled around and her elbow hit him -- ''pretty hard,'' he put it -- in the
eye. Ms. McMillan, who has been charged with assault, said it was an accident.
She contends that she unintentionally struck Officer Bovell after he accosted
her from behind, grabbing her right breast.

The trial, which entered its second day of testimony Monday, is the last
resulting from the Occupy Wall Street protests, which began in September 2011
and eventually led to more than 2,600 arrests. Of those cases, about 700 were
dismissed. An additional 1,355 were placed in the category of ''adjourned
contemplating dismissal,'' meaning those arrested will not have criminal records
as long as they stay out of further trouble in the near future.

But Ms. McMillan, a 25-year-old labor organizer, was one of the few defendants
who chose to go to trial, worried that by pleading guilty to a felony assault
she would permanently damage her record. And so she sat in court on Monday
morning as Officer Bovell told the jury how he tried to escort her from the park
-- an effort, he contended, Ms. McMillan met with stubbornness and expletives.
''As I'm walking her out,'' Officer Bovell testified, ''I remember her saying to
someone: 'Are you filming this? Are you filming this?' Then I remember the
defendant crouching down and lunging with her elbow and hitting me in the eye.''

Martin Stolar, Ms. McMillan's lawyer, has told the presiding judge, Ronald A.
Zweibel, that he did not yet know if his client would testify. But after court
let out Monday, Mr. Stolar told reporters that Officer Bovell's account was not
in keeping with Ms. McMillan's own recollections, nor with a video of the
episode, which was posted on YouTube shortly after Zuccotti Park was cleared.

Ms. McMillan has said that Officer Bovell grabbed her right breast from behind
and that she reacted reflexively, unaware that he was a police officer. She has
published pictures on the Internet that show a dark bruise on her breast. Her
supporters have taken to showing up in court, wearing paper pink hearts on their
chests, despite the fact Justice Zweibel has forbidden such displays of
solidarity.

On Monday, when more than a dozen supporters appeared in court with the hearts,
Justice Zweibel ordered an officer to confiscate them.



                              
 Disparate Forces Align Over Affordable Rents

 

The letter came in the dead of winter, dated Jan. 29. In a written ''notice of
termination,'' Toussaint Wortham's landlord accused him of violating his lease
by making some renovations in his kitchen, and telling him that he had two weeks
to leave the rent-stabilized apartment he had lived in for more than 30 years.

A few weeks later, Mr. Wortham said, his rent check was returned; his landlord
had refused to accept it. Then, he said, the building's manager offered to buy
him out of the unit if he agreed to vacate for good. After he refused, he was
served with court papers.

Mr. Wortham, 39, contends that the new set of cabinets he installed more than
five years earlier was not the impetus for his landlord's action. The real
problem was his rent; at $859 a month, it is far less than what the
three-bedroom apartment would command at market rate in his increasingly popular
Brooklyn neighborhood. Rather than call a lawyer, Mr. Wortham turned to a group
called the Crown Heights Tenant Union.

Founded by a handful of young Occupy Wall Street veterans last summer, the Crown
Heights Tenant Union is one of the most effective groups at dealing with issues
raised by the rapid gentrification of the neighborhood, just east of Prospect
Park. It has organized tenants in some 20 buildings, to combat what the group
says are patterns of abuse directed at residents like Mr. Wortham, who live in
the area's many rent-regulated apartments.

Struggles between tenants and landlords are nothing new, but this one has a
twist: Fueled by the influx of a new generation of socially conscious recent
college graduates, most of whom, unlike Mr. Wortham, have only lived in the
neighborhood for a couple of years, the group is challenging the stereotypes
that pit long-term residents against newer ones, which are often drawn along
racial and class lines, in the struggle over gentrification.

''It's pretty unique,'' said Kerri White, an organizer with the Urban
Homesteading Assistance Board, which, along with the Pratt Area Community
Council, is one of the seasoned advocacy groups that has joined forces with the
Tenant Union. ''Because the rate of gentrification in Crown Heights is happening
so rapidly, it really does put the spectrum of tenants together.''

Crown Heights, the group's organizers say, is a perfect storm of housing issues,
where regulated apartments can rent for as little as half of what they could
garner at market rates. According to advocates, the area has also been
disproportionately affected by the return of what they call ''predatory
equity,'' where private equity firms acquire buildings with a high percentage of
rent-regulated units and a business plan to convert those units to market rate
rentals.

The Tenant Union hopes that by organizing tenants, educating them about their
rights and streamlining information about the city's arcane housing laws, it
will be able to help fend off landlords who aggressively, and at times, the
group says, illegally, try to clear rent-stabilized units of their long-term
residents.

The group's position is that the harassment used to clear longstanding tenants
from apartments to make way for more affluent young adults like themselves, who
are often willing to pay much more for apartments, is a cycle of exploitation.

Older residents get displaced from rent-stabilized apartments by landlords who
harass them into buyouts, neglect to make repairs or stop accepting their rent
checks, the group says. Landlords then might overcharge subsequent tenants by
illegally inflating rent on what is still, in many cases, a rent-stabilized
unit. According to the group's logic, breaking this cycle would make life easier
for the area's longtime residents, while keeping rents lower for newcomers like
themselves, many of whom are earning entry-level professional wages.

Some landlords in the area dispute the accounts of tenants in the union. A man
who identified himself as Kenneth Rosenblum, one of the owners of Mr. Wortham's
building, acknowledged that he was currently in court with Mr. Wortham amid
eviction proceedings. ''He did something which was wrong. He has to take
responsibility for his conduct,'' said Mr. Rosenblum. ''The court will be the
one that makes that decision.''

Mr. Rosenblum rejected the notion that he would try to push out a
rent-stabilized tenant. ''We have these existing tenants who have asked us and
we have put in new kitchens, new baths, whatever anyone wants,'' he said. ''We
are there to be of service.''

Other groups have tried to organize in Crown Heights but have been less
effective. The Crown Heights Assembly, for example, gained attention in 2013 for
sticker-bombing buildings and loudly protesting against a local brokerage's
procedures. The brokerage responded by filing a $31 million lawsuit against the
assembly.

Organizers say the Crown Heights Tenant Union has found success where the Crown
Heights Assembly and Occupy Wall Street did not by focusing more on inclusion.
''For whatever reason, this is really working,'' said Nicole Carty, 25, a recent
graduate of Brown University and a former facilitator with the Occupy movement,
who helped found the group last summer.

The union has delivered a list of demands to various landlords in the area.
Modeled on collective bargaining agreements, the list calls for, among other
things, a five-year rent freeze, a right to timely repairs and an ''an end to
the cycle of displacement.'' They say their message is taking root with some in
their intended audience: the landlords of a building on Union Street where they
held a small protest have started making more repairs to currently occupied
apartments and stopped renovating vacant ones, according to organizers.

The rally on Union Street drew more than 50 neighborhood residents. Letitia
James, the city's public advocate, recently sent a staff member to meet with the
group. They are also working closely with South Brooklyn Legal Services to help
connect tenants to attorneys. The group's organizers say they are reaching
around 500 tenants, and that about 80 are regularly involved.

One of these is Heather Ifill, 62, who says her landlord won't make timely
repairs to the rent-stabilized one-bedroom she rents for about $800 a month. She
claims it took more than two months for her bathroom ceiling to be fixed after a
part of it collapsed last summer. Ms. Ifill, who learned of the group from a
flyer posted in her St. Marks Avenue building, says she doesn't think there's
anything hypocritical about the area's new residents trying to help out its
older ones.

''I'm glad that somebody is coming forward and trying to help the people in the
area get through all of this,'' she said.

She says she feels sympathy for some of them.

''If you come out here just starting out working, how can you pay the amount of
money that they're asking for?'' she said. ''Everybody deserves to live
someplace. Everybody deserves to have a nice apartment.''



                              
 Like-Minded Russians Visit American Protester

 

Most people disappear from the headlines into the gray anonymity of Rikers
Island after they are found guilty in state court in Manhattan.

But for Cecily McMillan, the 25-year-old Occupy Wall Street organizer convicted
on Monday of assaulting a police officer, her incarceration has served only to
heighten her profile.

As her admirers have taken to Twitter in droves to criticize the judge and the
district attorney for their handling of the case, Ms. McMillan has gotten
sympathetic treatment on ''The Daily Show With Jon Stewart'' and friendly
coverage from left-leaning media outlets like Democracy Now!, The Guardian, The
Nation and The Village Voice.

That trend reached a peak on Friday, when two members of Pussy Riot, the Russian
protest group that was incarcerated for staging a political performance against
President Vladimir V. Putin, trooped out to Rikers Island in the drizzle to
visit Ms. McMillan in a show of support.

''It was a very bad decision to put her in jail,'' said one member, Nadezhda
Tolokonnikova, 24, as she came through the jail's hurricane fence, which is
topped with razor wire, and lit a cigarette.

''She's a professional revolutionary.''

Her colleague Maria Alyokhina, 25, urged Justice Ronald A. Zweibel to sentence
Ms. McMillan to probation and community service rather than prison. She said a
harsh sentence would lead to unflattering comparisons to Russia, where they
served 21 months for playing a raucous protest song in Moscow's main cathedral.

''Society must organize to save Cecily because she's really a hero,'' Ms.
Alyokhina said. ''She is very similar to us. We also did time and went to prison
for our beliefs. We see a lot of parallels.''

The groundswell of support for Ms. McMillan includes some of the jurors who
convicted her in State Supreme Court in Manhattan.

On Thursday, a juror who said he spoke for nine members of the panel took the
highly unusual step of writing a letter to Justice Zweibel, asking that he show
leniency.

''We feel that the felony mark on Cecily's record is punishment enough for this
case and that it serves no purpose to Cecily or to society to incarcerate her
for any amount of time,'' the juror, Charles Woodard, wrote, according to a
defense lawyer, Martin R. Stolar. Juries have no say over sentencing in criminal
cases.

Justice Zweibel could sentence Ms. McMillan, who was convicted of second-degree
assault, to as little as a stint of community service or as much as seven years
in prison.

The judge remanded her to jail after the conviction until a sentencing hearing
on May 19.

The jury found that Ms. McMillan had deliberately elbowed a police officer,
Grantley Bovell, in the face as he led her out of Zuccotti Park in Lower
Manhattan during a protest on St. Patrick's Day in 2012.

That protest had started as a way to mark six months since the founding of
Occupy Wall Street.

Though she had taken part in many other protests, Ms. McMillan testified that
she had not joined in the civil disobedience that night. She had been out
drinking beer with a college friend and went to the park only to pick up another
acquaintance, she said.

She testified that she did not recall hitting the police officer, though she
said she did remember throwing her elbow instinctively when she thought someone
had grabbed her right breast, which was bruised during the arrest.

A grainy videotape from an onlooker appeared to support the officer's version of
events, showing her hitting him in the eye, then running a few steps before he
tackled her.

Since their release from prison in December, the members of the Russian protest
group have started a nonprofit, Zona Prava, whose mission is to improve
conditions in Russian prisons. They have also used their status as global
symbols of political freedom to promote feminism, gay rights and more
transparency in Russian politics.

Earlier this week, they met with senators in Washington to discuss what they
view as Russian human-rights abuses, including the long incarceration of several
protesters arrested during a May 2012 opposition rally in Bolotnaya Square in
Moscow.

They were contacted by Ms. McMillan's supporters on Thursday and then agreed to
go to Rikers.

Ms. Alyokhina and Ms. Tolokonnikova, who were accompanied by Petya Verzilov, a
member of their arts collective, said Ms. McMillan had appeared to be upbeat and
thriving, though she said she missed her cigarettes.

Ms. Tolokonnikova said Ms. McMillan had kept busy organizing other female
inmates to write letters on her behalf to the judge.

A Russophile, Ms. McMillan impressed her visitors with her knowledge of Soviet
history and poetry, discussing the absurdist poet Daniil Kharms. ''It's really
incredible to see someone that positive in prison,'' said Mr. Verzilov, who
served as a translator.

Ms. Alyokhina said Ms. McMillan had talked at length about how she now wanted to
start a social revolution in America. ''She told us about the revolution maybe
20 times,'' her visitor said. ''It's really very important to her.''



                              
 'Daily Show' Takes on Financial Crisis Cases

 

"The vampire's finally got their blood," Jon Stewart of "The Daily Show" said,
mocking those who wanted to see Wall Street punished for the financial crisis.
The victim: Kareem Serageldin.

Mr. Serageldin, a former executive at Credit Suisse, is the only banker who has
gone to prison for the financial crisis after pleading guilty to concealing
hundreds of millions of dollars in losses in the bank's mortgage-backed
securities portfolio.

But Mr. Stewart chalked Mr. Serageldin's plight to "stupidity."

"Pleading guilty is not how you address those very common charges" Mr. Stewart
said. Instead, he said, Mr. Serageldin should have taken after the big banks
like JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs, which agreed to large settlements for
their activities without admitting wrongdoing.

"You say when you're caught 'While I clearly have done nothing wrong, I know
you're a busy man and your time is valuable,' " Mr. Stewart said.

Mr. Serageldin was the subject of a recent New York Times Magazine article by
Jesse Eisinger of ProPublica - who also writesThe Trade column for DealBook. Mr.
Eisinger  appeared briefly on the show in a clip.

What's more, Mr. Stewart added, "As Wall Street suffers, the real perpetrators
of financial district wrongdoing continue to pay no price."

Until earlier this week, Mr. Stewart jokingly fumed, more bankers had gone to
jail than those who participated in a more heinous crime against the financial
system - Occupy Wall Street activists. That changed on Monday, when a jury found
Cecily McMillan, 25, guilty of assaulting a police officer at Zuccotti Park in
Manhattan in 2012.

"The arc of the moral universe is long," Mr. Stewart said.

"The Daily Show" correspondent Samantha Bee - bearing the title "Senior FVU
Correspondent," for Financial Victims Unit - said everyone on Wall Street was
breathing a sigh of relief now that Ms. McMillan was "finally off the streets."

So is the score now even? Not quite, Ms. Bee said.

"Wasn't this about the 99 percent against the 1 percent? That means that 99
bankers are worth one protestor," she said. "And by my count, that puts us 98
convicted hippies short of true justice."



     ·    Former Credit Suisse Executive Pleads Guilty to Inflating the Value of
          Mortgage Bonds
     ·    Credit Suisse Reaches $885 Million Mortgage Settlement



                              
 What I've Been Reading

 

Seems like this will be a biweekly rather than a weekly feature ...

1. "The Invisible Bridge: The Fall of Nixon and the Rise of Reagan," Rick
Perlstein. The latest installment in Perlstein's ongoing history of liberalism's
fall and Reaganism's rise, which began with 2001's "Before the Storm" (on Barry
Goldwater's campaign) and continued with 2008's "Nixonland." I reviewed the
latter, favorably, for the Atlantic; with "The Invisible Bridge" I'm only 137
pages in (with 550-odd to go), so no comprehensive judgments yet. So far
Perlstein's portrait of Reagan's youth and family life is wonderful, one of the
best I've read, while the thematic thru-line - the Gipper as the gravedigger for
a temporary era of American self-criticism - has already been to grate a bit.
The book, though massive, only gets us through Reagan's failed 1976 campaign; I
hope Perlstein has not succumbed to Robert Caro-ism. Due out in August.

2. "Room to Grow: Conservative Reforms for a Limited Government and a Thriving
Middle Class," The YG Network, and "The Reformicons," E.J. Dionne, Democracy
Journal. "Room to Grow" is a book of policy essays by various folks associated
with the tendency I've called "reform conservatism," which is being launched
today with an event at the American Enterprise Institute featuring some actual
flesh-and-blood Republican politicians as well as a panel of opinion-mongers
like yours truly. (My colleague Jonathan Martin writes up the book in today's
paper.) Dionne's essay, meanwhile, is a liberal's analysis-cum-critique of our
almost-movement, to which I hope to respond after the holiday weekend. (By that
point, of course, we'll have seized power and exiled most of our enemies, so
consider yourself warned.)

3. "Where Are the Real Liberals on Campus?" Damon Linker, The Week; "On Academic
Helicopters," and "Trigger Warnings and Trust," Alan Jacobs, Text Patterns.
Three pieces occasioned by this story in the Times, about so-called "trigger
warnings" for students in the humanities, in which the writers discuss the state
of the liberal arts and their own, not-necessarily-what-you'd-expect experiences
with student sensitivities at religious colleges - Linker at B.Y.U. and Jacobs
at Wheaton and Baylor.

4. "Of Flying Cars and the Declining Rate of Profit," David Graeber, The
Baffler. An essay from 2012, from the Occupy Wall Street-affiliated author of
"Debt: The First 5000 Years," that I missed at the time; I'm reading it now
because Jacobs cited it one of the posts mentioned above. Roughly speaking, a
left-wing version of Peter Thiel's argument about technological stagnation, with
more overlap between the two than Thiel and Graeber's substantial ideological
differences would lead one to expect. Very stimulating, and close to some of my
current preoccupations.

5. "The Case For Reparations," Ta-Nehisi Coates, The Atlantic. No comment just
yet.



                              
 As Living Standards Fall for Seniors, Some See Signs of 'Silver
Revolution'

 

BEFORE Boston police detained Ann A. Stewart last August, she had a clean
record. But she vows not to wait long, certainly not another 89 years, to become
a repeat offender.

Ms. Stewart, 89, a retired hospital employee, was arrested while chanting
slogans with a few co-conspirators from inside an imitation jail cell to protest
the doubling of the local paratransit fare to $4. Protest organizers erected the
fake prison in the middle of the city's busy Stuart Street to symbolize the fare
increase's effect on disabled riders on fixed incomes, and to block traffic. Ms.
Stewart's arresting officer -- ''a very nice young man,'' she recalled -- did
not place her in handcuffs and let her keep her cane.

Ms. Stewart, who does not use paratransit herself, treasures the memory of her
approximately two hours in custody. ''It means a lot to me,'' she said. ''I'm
very strong in my belief about certain things a senior should be able to do.''

Not long after the August protest (which was part of a longer campaign), the
Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority rolled back the paratransit fare by
one dollar -- evidence, in Ms. Stewart's opinion, that older adults must
aggressively fight for their rights.

In Europe, older protesters often make noise. In 2012, throngs of Greek
pensioners marched in Athens to oppose austerity measures. Last October, a
raucous crowd estimated at 10,000 rallied in front of the Irish Parliament to
denounce medical benefit cuts for people over 65.

For now, the senior rights movement in America remains relatively muted. Perhaps
as Tom Hayden, the 1960s activist, suggested, the ''price of some success is
that the voluntary activist groups can feel less needed.'' Could older Americans
just be complacent? Maybe demonstrating in the streets is best left to the
young? Or perhaps, as one experienced activist argued, unfavorable media
coverage of events like Occupy Wall Street gives protesting a bad name.

Whatever the reasons, several social scientists say deteriorating conditions for
retirees and older Americans in general -- intensifying fear about retirement
security, age discrimination, increasing poverty among the elderly and new
threats to cut programs for seniors -- could be the impetus for what some are
calling a ''silver revolution.''

''Now would be the time for senior rights movements to mobilize once again,''
Andrea Louise Campbell, author of ''How Policies Make Citizens: Senior Citizen
Activism and the American Welfare State,'' suggested in an email. Ms. Campbell
pointed to recent proposals by politicians to trim Social Security benefits and
convert Medicare into a voucher program as actions meriting a response.

''If there's a direct threat to Social Security or Medicare, that's when you do
see people mobilizing,'' said Jill B. Quadagno, a professor of sociology at
Florida State University who studies social gerontology. Ms. Quadagno recounted
that in 1964, roughly 14,000 protesters, predominantly retirees, marched outside
the Democratic National Convention in Atlantic City, N.J. The National Council
of Senior Citizens, backed by the A.F.L.-C.I.O., staged the show of force to
prod politicians to support President Lyndon B. Johnson's proposal for Medicare,
which was enacted the next year. Later that decade and in the 1970s, advocates
for older adults battled to expand Social Security, winning, among other policy
changes, automatic cost-of-living adjustments.

In 1970, Maggie Kuhn founded the Gray Panthers to combat age discrimination and
establish an intergenerational coalition for social justice. Her longtime
employer, the United Presbyterian Church, had forced Ms. Kuhn to retire at 65.
In 1986, after sustained pressure from the Gray Panthers and other advocates,
President Ronald W. Reagan, then 75, joined with the 73-year-old speaker of the
House, Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., to abolish the mandatory retirement age. Ms. Kuhn,
who traded barbs with Johnny Carson on ''The Tonight Show,'' became a pop
culture figure; at the height of the Gray Panthers' power in the early 1980s,
the organization had roughly 60,000 financial contributors.

The Gray Panthers' influence ebbed in the mid-1980s and eroded further after Ms.
Kuhn's death in 1995, which ''drained the social movement of its energy,''
Vincent Roscigno, a professor of sociology at Ohio State University, said in an
email. Writing in Z Magazine, Eric Laursen analyzed the Gray Panthers as
''victims of their own success,'' in that they achieved many of their early
initiatives.

The well-funded, 37-million-member American Association of Retired Persons
(later renamed AARP), founded in 1958, also emerged as a front-line advocate for
senior citizens, but the organization performs its advocacy work through more
traditional lobbying efforts, not street protests. While the AARP pushes
''important ideas that are important for older people,'' said Eric R. Kingson, a
professor of social work at Syracuse University who studies aging, ''they're not
the Gray Panthers.''

The Gray Panthers organization now has roughly 15,000 members and a diminished
public profile. Sally Brown, the group's current executive director, blames the
flagging troop strength on a general lack of activism in America and a
''corporatized'' media that ''demonized'' social movements like Occupy Wall
Street. ''The activism then just gets squelched and doesn't lead to the change
that people see, so that's disempowering to people, and they disengage,'' said
Ms. Brown.

''I wish Maggie were here,'' said Mr. Kingson. But even without a charismatic
general, he predicted the senior rights movement would charge forward. ''We're
not France. When they tried to raise the retirement age, people went to the
barricades,'' he said. ''But if we are pushed far enough as a people, there will
be a reaction. Many people are right on edge, maintaining their standard of
living as retirees. I think they are scared.''

Data supports Mr. Kingson's premise. The Center for Retirement Research at
Boston College reported in 2013 that more than half of working-age households
faced a deteriorating standard of living in retirement. A Pew Research Center
survey published in 2012 found that the percentage of people ages 55 to 64 who
doubt that they will have enough to live on during retirement rose to 39 percent
in 2012 from 26 percent in 2009. And the number of seniors experiencing hunger
rose 200 percent between 2001 and 2011, according to a report by the Meals on
Wheels Research Foundation.

Pervasive biases against older employees should radicalize seniors across the
political spectrum, said Mr. Roscigno, an expert on workplace discrimination.
''We live in a society consumed and obsessed by freshness and youth,'' said Mr.
Roscigno. ''This can and does culminate in discrimination in hiring, in firing
and in general harassment.''

When aging workers lose their jobs, he noted, they find it far more difficult
than younger colleagues to find re-employment. The number of age discrimination
cases filed with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission increased by more
than 50 percent from 1999 to 2013.

Images of aging picketers carrying canes and protest signs are potent weapons in
the advocacy arsenal, said Mr. Hayden. ''We live very much now in a protest era
that concentrates on the visual entirely, so, yes, the elderly in the front
ranks holding the right placards does make a difference to political
consultants,'' he said.

But getting arrested during a protest can take a toll on elderly activists.
''It's always uncomfortable when you have steel on your soft tissues,'' said
Alfred Klinger, an 87-year-old retired physician who was handcuffed during a
protest in Chicago in 2011 over threatened cuts to social service programs.

Mr. Hayden, 74, who as one of the ''Chicago Eight'' was indicted on federal
charges of incitement to riot after street protests at the Democratic National
Convention in 1968, is admittedly skittish about attending demonstrations these
days.

''The fact that I had heart surgery 12 years ago is a contributing factor,'' he
acknowledged. ''I don't really want to be pepper-sprayed if I can avoid it. It
wouldn't bother me if it was 1968.''

Manning the barricades, Mr. Hayden said, might be a younger person's mission.
But he added: ''If you hear of any new movements for climate protection or
women's rights or anything else led by 80-year-olds, let me know. Sign me up.''



                              
 For Wall St. Protesters, New Debit Card Is a Financial Venture of
Their Own

 

To mark the second anniversary of the Occupy Wall Street movement last month, an
assortment of protests, marches and rallies were held, to support or oppose
mostly predictable causes.

At the same time, a far more surprising undertaking began with far less fanfare:
creating a prepaid Occupy debit card.

The idea, led by a group that includes a Cornell law professor, a former
director of Deutsche Bank and a former British diplomat, is meant to serve
people who do not have bank accounts, but it also aims to make Occupy a
recognized financial services brand.

On Sept. 17, the day of the anniversary, the group, known as the Occupy Money
Cooperative, began raising money to pay for initial operating expenses. The
group's Web site invites visitors to ''join the revolution,'' suggesting that
using the card might represent a ''protest with every purchase.'' That language
evokes the spirit of the sprawling encampment of tents and tarps that briefly
took over Zuccotti Park in 2011, and several people who were familiar figures
there have endorsed the mission of the card, which its founders have described
as ''low-cost, transparent, high-quality financial services to the 99 percent.''

But not everyone associated with the Occupy movement likes the idea; the notion
of the Occupy name emblazoned on a financial product, even one made by people
with some connection to the movement, has prompted questions about who controls
the name and message.

''Too much blood, sweat and tears have been going into Occupy to have that
turned into a piece of plastic,'' said Bill Dobbs, a longtime Occupy
participant. ''This is a very odd fit, and for the project's sake and Occupy's
sake, they ought to go on separate paths.''

From its beginning, Occupy's participants were protective of the group's name
and image, rejecting association with political parties. Protesters invaded the
set of a ''Law & Order: S.V.U.'' episode that was based on the movement, and
lashed out at Jay-Z when he sold Occupy-themed T-shirts.

The idea for a debit card sprouted more than a year ago, said Carne Ross, a
cooperative member who resigned from the British foreign service in 2004 to
protest the Iraq war. Mr. Ross was also a member of the alternative banking
working group established by Occupy's General Assembly.

''There is no profit here,'' said Mr. Ross, adding that once the cooperative
raised about $900,000, it would make the cards available to anyone who signed up
on the group's Web site. ''The only revenue we want is to make the thing
sustainable and eventually expand our range of services.''

There will be no upfront cost for the card, Mr. Ross said, but there will be
fees, including $1.95 for A.T.M. withdrawals and 99 cents for balance inquiries.

The card appears to intentionally avoid high fees that other debit cards have
imposed, said Dean Baker, an economist and co-director of the Center for
Economic and Policy Research. ''In general terms they are trying to have a very
low-cost card,'' he said.

But when Mr. Ross participated in an ''ask me anything'' forum on the social
media Web site Reddit in August, he was peppered with skeptical questions. Some
of the most pointed criticism came in an article printed in Tidal, a magazine
that examines the theories and tactics that formed Occupy and similar movements,
which was headlined ''Help Support Better Stronger Neo-Liberalism With the
Occupy Money Cooperative.''

The cooperative has also drawn criticism over its plan to establish a
relationship with Visa, which some activists condemn because the company
declined to process donations to WikiLeaks, the international organization known
for publishing leaked information, much of it classified.

Mr. Ross said he respected the objection to Visa. But he said his group had no
choice but to do business with that company or a similar one in order to produce
a debit card that could be widely accepted.

Eventually, Mr. Ross said, the cooperative hopes to offer loans and other
services that would benefit millions of people who do not use traditional banks,
often because they cannot afford the fees.

While some organizers acknowledged that the debit cards could be put to good
use, they said the term ''Occupy Card'' wrongly implied that the project had
been vetted and approved by the movement as a whole. And several organizers
framed their reservations as a question of legacy, saying they were disturbed by
the possibility that a debit card could end up being the most lasting artifact
of the movement.

''Occupy has always been a consensus-based movement,'' said Patrick Bruner, an
organizer who was present on the first day of the protests. ''And there's no
consensus on this issue.''



                              
 Undercover, Everywhere Imaginable

 

It may not have occurred to people that New York City needed to deploy an
undercover detective to spy on Occupy Sandy, a relief operation run by activists
that delivered food and supplies to parts of the city ruined by the hurricane.
But Detective Wojciech Braszczok, who embedded with the Occupy Wall Street
forces under the nom de activist Albert, was putting posts on Twitter last
November about the Sandy operation, which, by the way, received consistently
high grades from people for its nimble, effective work.

The city now has a sturdy legion of undercover officers who have taken up
residence in many surprising regions of civic life. Much of this began in early
2003, when a federal judge lifted many restraints on spying by the Police
Department. The city had been failed by the federal intelligence services, and
thousands died on Sept. 11. Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly and Mayor
Michael R. Bloomberg created an independent intelligence capacity.

So before and during the Iraq War, the organization of antiwar rallies was
regarded as a fit matter for police surveillance; so were the monthly Critical
Mass bicycle rallies, as well as groups protesting at the Republican National
Convention in 2004, and a range of Islamic facilities, from mosques to college
student clubs. Undercover New York police officers showed up at activists'
meetings all over the country, carrying guitars and knapsacks. Handlers left
money for them in the wheel wells of cars. Field reports were stamped ''NYPD
Secret.'' Anyone who left a scrap of paper on the desk at the Intelligence
Division's headquarters in Chelsea was apt to get his or her knuckles rapped by
the commander, a former Central Intelligence Agency man who brought that
agency's custom of fastidiousness to the mess of the city.

The unrestrained surveillance in New York public life is the physical embodiment
of what has been taking place online over the last decade under operations of
the National Security Agency revealed by Edward J. Snowden. To borrow the title
of a 1918 novel about nosy Irish villagers, we have become The Valley of the
Squinting Windows.

But it was all O.K. because the mayor and the police commissioner said so,
though from the outside, no one could really say what they were up to.

Detective Braszczok was arrested this week and charged with being part of a gang
of motorcycle riders who turned a traffic dispute into a smallish riot directed
against a man at the wheel of a sport utility vehicle with his family inside.
The detective's credential as an undercover officer jolted many people into
paying attention. ''We sent out his pictures to everyone on our list this
morning, and asked if anyone knew him,'' said Bill DiPaola, a leader of Time's
Up, an organization that advocates for improved circumstances for bicycles.

Soon, the detective's participation in Occupy Wall Street was documented with
pictures. No doubt video will surface soon: every one of us is now a
videographer in an age of free-range history. Gothamist reported that he posted
on Twitter as @evovillen about the Occupy Sandy operation:

''*SANDY SPECIAL PART 3* REBUILDING OCCUPY TO CONNECT, MOBILIZE AND CO-CREATE
WITH, assembly Happening at 60 wall today.''

Gothamist's Web site quoted a member of the Sandy relief operation saying that
the detective was a regular at the two main distribution depots set up by the
group in Brooklyn. He attended an activist's birthday party at the Blarney stone
in Lower Manhattan.

One of the large, undiscussed questions of such surveillance is how civic
dialogue can be influenced or distorted by police agents -- perhaps as
provocateurs, or possibly with no motive beyond maintaining cover. During the
Republican convention, after a group making a film was arrested, a redheaded man
standing on the street pounded on the back window of a police van, urging that
the people inside be let go. A day later, the same man was videotaped being
briefly put under a fake arrest, leading to tumult in the street from others who
objected to his incarceration. They were unaware that the man was an undercover
police officer who was walked down the street by uniformed officers, hands
behind his back but uncuffed, and sent on his way: catch and release.

The city has maintained that the expanded surveillance is necessary to keep
society safe. No one in the Bloomberg administration has discussed the limits on
their participation in public dialogue. Or, for that matter, why they ought to
be standing alongside people handing out bags of groceries.



                              
 Last Scheduled Case of Brooklyn Bridge Arrests, Like Most Others, Is
Dismissed

 

Two years after more than 700 people were arrested on the Brooklyn Bridge
roadway for participating in an Occupy Wall Street march, the last scheduled
criminal case found its way to a courtroom in Manhattan this month.

Jonathan Stribling-Uss, a 32-year-old law school graduate, stood up in front of
a judge, ready to contest his arrest that day.

''In a very understated way, the prosecutor said they didn't have the evidence
to prove the case beyond a reasonable doubt,'' Mr. Stribling-Uss recalled.

And just like that, his case ended as so many had before: with a dismissal.

Of the 732 arrests made on the Brooklyn Bridge, 680 cases were dismissed, 195 at
the request of prosecutors, 40 by the court and 445 contingent on defendants'
not being arrested again within six months. The district attorney declined to
prosecute 21 cases. Six people pleaded guilty to disorderly conduct, prosecutors
said, five were convicted at trial and two were acquitted. One case was resolved
with a plea in a separate case. Warrants have been issued for the 17 remaining
defendants who have failed to show up for court dates; it is unclear when or if
those cases will be resolved.

''From an administrative and justice perspective, this was obviously a
challenge,'' Cyrus R. Vance Jr., the Manhattan district attorney, said. ''I'm
proud that the office handled the cases in a fair and evenhanded way.''

The mass arrests, which gave rise to a class action civil rights lawsuit and a
long-running court battle exploring whether social media messages are public or
private, created a logistical challenge. Defendants attended a special trial
part run by a single judge that was created solely to handle Occupy cases.

Even before the bridge march, the district attorney had established a new post,
mass arrest coordinator, assisted by three prosecutors and four paralegals, said
Karen Friedman Agnifilo, executive assistant district attorney and chief of the
trial division. Those lawyers handled the Brooklyn Bridge cases, even those in
which only summonses were issued.

The aim, Ms. Friedman Agnifilo said, was to provide the same level of due
process in every case. She said that prosecutors scrutinized arrest paperwork
and police videos, sometimes questioning officers who appeared in photographs to
determine whether specific protesters had been warned not to go onto the
roadway.

''We looked at every single case individually and would prosecute if we had a
provable case,'' she said.

Ultimately, cases turned on whether it could be shown that defendants knew they
were breaking the law. In one case, a man who was videotaped asking a captain
what charges he would face was ultimately convicted. And although a police
captain issued a warning through a megaphone, many said it was unintelligible.
In dozens of other cases, prosecutors asked that they be dismissed when
arresting officers could not identify defendants or testify about their actions.

The vast caseload was also unusual for members of the National Lawyers Guild,
said Ben Meyers, who served as the group's mass defense office coordinator, a
position that was created after the bridge arrests.

Mr. Meyers said that 45 volunteer lawyers represented 662 defendants without
charge, with most lawyers taking up to 10 cases and some taking as many as 50 or
over 100. Collectively, he said, those lawyers made about 1,500 appearances
during 87 court dates.

The arrests quickly became a flash point: protesters said that the police led
them to believe that they could walk on the roadway; police officials strongly
denied that. And both police and protesters pointed to videos to support their
accounts.

Three days after the arrests, the Partnership for Civil Justice Fund filed a
lawsuit in Federal District Court in Manhattan saying that those arrested had
been entrapped. Judge Jed S. Rakoff later excluded the City of New York, Mayor
Michael R. Bloomberg and Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly from the case but
allowed it to proceed against officers at the scene because, he said, the police
did not adequately warn protesters before arresting them.

Another continuing case stems from a subpoena that prosecutors sent to Twitter,
asking for three months of messages from one man arrested on the bridge, Malcolm
Harris. Prosecutors argued that the Twitter posts could show that he knew going
onto the roadway was a violation.

Mr. Harris opposed the subpoena, saying that it violated his privacy and
infringed on his First and Fourth Amendment rights. A judge later ruled against
Mr. Harris because he had agreed to let Twitter publicly distribute his
messages.

Mr. Harris pleaded guilty to disorderly conduct before the messages were handed
over, and then appealed the order to produce them in State Supreme Court. His
lawyer, Martin R. Stolar, said the issue had far-reaching implications for
social media users whose communications are stored not in a desk drawer or file
cabinet but in an electronic cloud maintained by others.

''So many people are using the cloud,'' he said. ''All this data is up there and
who owns it?''



                              
 What I Saw on Rikers Island

 

I RECENTLY served 58 days of a three-month sentence on Rikers Island. I was
convicted in May of assaulting a New York City police officer as the police
cleared Zuccotti Park of Occupy Wall Street protesters in 2012. (I am appealing
my conviction.) I got a firsthand experience that I did not seek of what it is
like to live behind bars.

Rikers is a city jail; it holds some 11,000 inmates who are awaiting trial or
sentencing, or who have been convicted and sentenced to a year or less of time.

During my incarceration, two correction officers were arrested on charges of
smuggling contraband, including drugs, to inmates. The week after I was
released, two more correction officers and a captain were arrested on charges of
having beaten a handcuffed prisoner into unconsciousness in 2012. Last week, The
New York Times reported on the ''culture of brutality'' on Rikers. The city is
now investigating more than 100 reported violent assaults on inmates.

None of this would surprise the inmates of the Rose M. Singer Center, the
women's barrack on the island, who routinely experience or witness brutality of
all kinds.

On one day in May, I was waiting outside the jail pharmacy for my daily A.D.H.D.
prescription. A male officer began harassing me, and when I made the mistake of
looking at his badge to get his number, he slammed his body into mine and
shouted a sexual slur at me.

I wrote up a complaint and then showed it to my lawyer, but he advised me not to
file it, because of the risk of retaliation. Despite formal rules governing the
interactions between correction officers and inmates that are detailed in the
inmate handbook issued to everyone at intake, in reality we had no rights and no
recourse in these kinds of conflicts.

Violence is easy to grasp and to condemn. What's harder to understand for people
who haven't done time is the day-in, day-out degradation and neglect.

Inmates are routinely denied basic medical treatment. I saw a woman soiled with
vomit and sobbing for hours. We other inmates were afraid and concerned. We
didn't know what was happening, or what we could do. Finally, at the insistence
of a few inmates, she was taken to the hospital. She never came back. Her name
was Judith. She had befriended me before she died.

I fear for my jailhouse ''madrina'' (godmother), who remains on Rikers. For more
than a month, she has been asking to get a biopsy of a lump in her throat, which
she worries is a recurrence of the cancer she was treated for years ago.

And then there is the ritual humiliation of the inmates -- not physical death,
but death of the soul. Our dorm was searched at least twice a month, and more
often if the guards wanted to set an example. Two or three captains, and about
10 officers, male and female, would file into the dorm in full riot gear,
wearing plexiglass masks and carrying big wooden bats.

Another set of female officers filed into the bathroom and stood in a line
facing the stalls, which lack doors. We were ordered to lie down on our beds,
face down, hands behind our backs. A third set of female officers filed in.

They called us row by row into the bathroom, where we were ordered to strip
naked, do a deep knee-bend facing forward and another one facing backward, open
our mouths, shake out our hair and lift up our breasts.

After we put our green jumpsuits back on, we were marched into the day room
where we were ordered to stand facing the wall, sometimes for hours, while the
dormitory was searched, the bedding flipped over, our personal possessions
ransacked. Then a work detail of inmates went into the dormitory and swept all
our ''unapproved'' belongings -- fruit, pens, extra blankets -- into trash bags.
The aftermath reminded me of what it was like to come home after a hurricane in
southeast Texas, where I grew up.

In the face of inhumanity, many of the women I shared quarters with were
amazingly resilient and caring. They looked after one another, and they looked
after me.

In March, Mayor Bill de Blasio appointed Joseph Ponte as the city's new
correction commissioner. By reputation, Mr. Ponte, formerly the head of the
Department of Corrections in Maine, is a reformer. He recently told Times
reporters that Rikers Island needed change to ''really bring it into the 21st
century.'' But he denied that Rikers had ''a culture of violence.'' I disagree.

Fixing the prison system won't be quick or easy. But in the short term, things
could be done to improve conditions on Rikers. Before I left, I asked the other
inmates what changes they would make. They had many ideas. Here are two.

Upon intake, every inmate should receive a physical and psychological
examination, as well as medication and treatment as needed. (I waited three
weeks before receiving that daily prescription medication, which I had been
taking before I was incarcerated.) While in jail, each prisoner should be
guaranteed access to a doctor within 24 hours, as well as emergency medical help
-- such action, I believe, could have saved Judith's life.

And inmates need to be able to file grievances about mistreatment without fear
of retaliation. The rules governing ordinary interactions between inmates and
correction officers, as well as the process for filing grievances, seem all too
often to describe an alternate reality where interactions are calm, orderly and
reasonably respectful.

But what I saw and experienced on Rikers was far more chaotic and arbitrary.
Yes, the women and men on Rikers have been accused or convicted of crimes -- but
that does not mean that they should be deprived of their basic rights to safety
and care.



                              
 At Union-Owned Amalgamated Bank, New Chief Charts a Progressive Course

 

One of New York's biggest small banks has a new leader.

On Friday, Amalgamated Bank, the nation's largest union-owned bank, said that it
had named Keith Mestrich, the bank's president, as its chief executive.

Amalgamated operates in the shadows of the likes of Citigroup and JPMorgan
Chase, but the community bank has an outsize presence in corporate governance
issues.The bank is the largest manager of union pension funds in the country,
making it a big player in the progressive movement and a vocal supporter of
shareholder rights.

Mr. Mestrich, who spent much of his career working with labor unions and
nonprofit organizations, said his experience and progressive outlook put him in
a special position compared with other bank executives.

"Maybe it's not the most natural step in my career, but it's the right place to
be," he said. "I'm looking forward to being able to help craft a vision that
helps serve that community."

Part of that vision involves expanding the bank's core constituency beyond
unions to include progressive advocacy groups. The bank is also aiming to build
up its relationship with the Democratic Party, which Mr. Mestrich helped push
when he joined the bank in 2012 as director of its Washington office.

"There's no way for the bank to have a bigger presence and grow more quickly
than in Washington," he said. Under his leadership, he added, the bank has more
than doubled its deposits in Washington, from $79 million in 2012 to more than
$200 million as of the end of July.

In the next few years, the bank intends to expand its reach further into
Washington, as well as New Jersey and California.

Noel Beasley, the bank's chairman and president of the labor union Workers
United, described Mr. Mestrich as a "progressive warrior" with a passion for
serving customers. "We are thrilled to have such a talented and unique
individual at the helm as we build on our current strengths and chart our course
for the future," he said  in a statement.

Mr. Mestrich, who took over the chief executive role on Wednesday, will succeed
Gabriel Caprio, the bank's interim chief executive. Mr. Mestrich will also
continue to serve as the bank's president.

Founded in New York in 1923 by the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America union
to make loans to struggling apparel workers, the bank has long depended on
unions and pension funds to make up a large part of its business.

The bank, which has 24 retail branches, including 20 in New York, gained
particular attention during the Occupy Wall Street movement after one of its
branches near Zuccotti Park, the hub of demonstration activities, hung a banner
showing its support. Occupy Wall Street then set up a bank account at
Amalgamated, as did many of the movement's supporters, who had pulled their
deposits from big banks. Deposits at Amalgamted surged.

However, the bank also ran into regulatory issues after the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation and the New York State Banking Department ordered the bank
to raise fresh capital and bring its capital ratio to 7 percent after it had
fallen to 6.2 percent.

Soon after, the billionaire investor Wilbur L. Ross Jr. and Ronald W. Burkle, a
supermarket magnate, each invested about $50 million in the bank. The financiers
now hold roughly 36 percent of the bank, which has $3.7 billion in assets, with
its trust department managing or serving as custodian for $37.9 billion in
assets. Workers United, part of the Service Employees International Union, still
owns a majority stake in the bank.

Even as Amalgamated focuses on growing its customer base, it has not lost sight
of New York.

The bank has teamed up with the New York City Economic Development Corporation
on an affordable loan program intended to help immigrants with training and
certification for better paying jobs. More recently, Amalgamated's board
approved setting aside a portion of the bank's loan portfolio to support
affordable housing in New York.

"Nothing is more important to the bank than our relationship to New York City,"
Mr. Mestrich said.



                              
 Hackers' Efforts to Identify Officer Create Turmoil

 

They urged the citizens of Ferguson, Mo., to confront the police in the streets.
They caused the city's web servers to crash, forcing officials to communicate by
text. They posted the names and address of the county police chief's family. And
then on Thursday they released what they said was the name of the police officer
who killed Michael Brown, an unarmed 18-year-old black man, on Saturday.

Members of Anonymous -- the shadowy, snide international collective of hackers
and online activists -- have played a key role in the growing confrontation
outside St. Louis over Mr. Brown's death, goading and threatening the
authorities, and calling the effort Operation Ferguson.

Operations in the collective's decade-long history have included taking down the
World Cup website to protest poverty, helping identify assailants in a rape case
in Ohio, cheering on the Occupy Wall Street movement and carrying out
coordinated cyberassaults on repressive foreign governments. But this one ran
into trouble faster than most.

The St. Louis police said on Twitter that the name given out was wrong, and that
the man was not even a police officer. Within Anonymous there was an unusual
amount of dissent. In interviews, in private chat channels and on Twitter,
members accused those who had initially posted details of producing faulty
information and putting one another in harm's way by openly chatting about their
methods online.

On Thursday, Twitter suspended @TheAnonMessage, the account that had posted the
dubious information about the officer, although Twitter officials declined to
say why. Those behind the account said in an email that they would post
information from a backup account, @TheAnonMessage2, while other Twitter
accounts affiliated with Anonymous tried to distance themselves from the post.

''But for the record, one last time. Operation Ferguson has NOT, repeat NOT
released the name of Mike Brown's killer, nor have we claimed to,'' the
individual behind the Operation Ferguson account said on Twitter.

Gabriella Coleman, an anthropologist who studies Anonymous and teaches at McGill
University in Montreal, said she was taken aback that members of Anonymous would
be so quick to release unverified information, and would speak so openly about
their methods in online chat channels.

''My jaw was dropping,'' Ms. Coleman said, reading members' communications. ''I
was surprised because what I was seeing was suggestive but not definitive.
Anonymous tends to care about its image quite a bit, and if they were wrong, it
would be really bad.''

In private chat channels early Thursday, she said, members argued about the
release of a photo of a man who resembled one of the officers at the scene of
Mr. Brown's shooting.

Some of it was reminiscent of past Anonymous campaigns, such as that prompted by
a rape case in Steubenville, Ohio, and another three years ago in Manhattan,
when hackers identified a high-ranking police officer who pepper-sprayed Occupy
Wall Street protesters.

In the Ferguson case, many were drawn to the Anonymous campaign after Tef Poe, a
St. Louis rapper, began posting live video and news updates to his Twitter, Vine
and Instagram feeds this week. By Monday, the Operation Ferguson Twitter account
had been set up, and prominent members of Anonymous had joined the effort.

Members assert that the organization is not a group but a loose collective
working to advance similar ideals -- but sometimes contradictory ones. While
Anonymous espouses privacy, its members also use the release of others' personal
information as a tactic in cases where they believe the authorities are not
acting in the public interest, or the news media has not released pertinent
information. Members are quick to condemn any individual who claims to speak for
the entire collective, and dissent and infighting are common.

Members also sought to explain the internal bickering and uncoordinated
communications.

''For those new to Anonymous, it's a global collective of millions of autonomous
individuals and groups,'' an Operation Ferguson post on Twitter said. ''Each is
responsible for themselves only.''

Since a prominent Anonymous hacker, Hector Xavier Monsegur, became a federal
informant more than two years ago, members of the collective have taken great
pains to use Internet security and anonymity software tools.

Some members were desperate in their pleas this week that the man's photo not be
released until more definitive information had been gathered. Ultimately, some
members held a vote and decided to release the photo.

But within hours, many had backtracked. Some openly said the ''dox'' -- a
hacking term for the release of an individual's personal information -- had been
wrong. ''The original dox were faulty, it happens, an excess of zeal,'' one
Anonymous member said in a direct message on Twitter.

The infighting seemed to have taken its toll. Those behind the @TheAnonMessage2
account, who were behind the initial disclosures, had grown considerably more
circumspect.

''ANNOUNCEMENT: We are ceasing any future dox releases until further notice,''
they posted on Twitter.



                              
 Fusion Set to Name Innovation Director

 

Fusion, the joint online and television venture between Univision and the
Disney-ABC Television Group, is expected to announce on Monday that it has hired
Tim Pool, a digital journalist known for his use of cutting-edge reporting
technologies and his marathon live-stream reporting during the recent
controversy in Ferguson, Mo., and the Occupy Wall Street protests.

Mr. Pool, 28, most recently worked for Vice Media, a rival youth-focused news
and entertainment venture. He is scheduled to start on Monday as Fusion's senior
correspondent and director of media innovation.

The move comes as Fusion continues to build out its next-generation news network
targeted at the diverse and elusive millennial audience. Fusion, which started
last year, recently hired Jane Spencer, formerly of The Daily Beast and The Wall
Street Journal; Felix Salmon, formerly of Reuters; and Anna Holmes, founder of
the website Jezebel.

''We have this blank slate,'' Mr. Pool said, adding that in his new role he
would explore approaches for using mobile, robotic, drone and other technologies
for reporting.

Mr. Pool, a Chicago native, said ''it wasn't really on purpose'' that he became
a journalist. He said he grew up on the Internet and so naturally started
posting updates and photos to Facebook, Twitter and other outlets as those new
technologies emerged. He traveled to New York during the Occupy Wall Street
demonstration in 2011 and quickly gained recognition for his live stream of the
protests -- captured on his mobile phone.

''Unbeknownst to me, I started doing journalism, just because I was bearing
witness,'' he said. ''I started understanding that technology created a real
opportunity to help share information.''

Since then, Mr. Pool has used a similar style of tech-driven eyewitness
reporting for covering protests in Istanbul, Cairo and Brazil. He also has
explored using drones, mobile devices, Google Glass and other technologies for
journalism. This year, he created the Tagg.ly app for reporters to watermark
their photographs and video.

Isaac Lee, Fusion's chief executive, said in a note to staff members, ''As we
continue to find new ways to engage with our audience, Tim will play a crucial
role in helping Fusion break new boundaries, while sharing innovative, authentic
perspectives on the important events impacting the world.''

Separately, Martin Peers is leaving his post as media and marketing bureau chief
at The Wall Street Journal to work as a columnist at The Information, the
subscription tech-news site started last year by Jessica E. Lessin, a former
Wall Street Journal reporter. Mr. Peers, 54, worked at The Wall Street Journal
for 15 years and was part of a team of reporters who won a 2003 Pulitzer Prize
for explanatory reporting.



                              
 Morning Agenda: A Fund for Bitcoins

 

The upstart stock exchange SecondMarket, which made a name for itself allowing
investors to buy shares of private companies, is turning to the next new thing:
bitcoin. On Thursday, SecondMarket is expected to begin raising money for an
investment fund - the first of its kind in the United States - that will hold
only bitcoins, allowing wealthy investors to bet on the future price of the
trendy but much debated virtual currency, Peter Lattman and Nathaniel Popper
report in DealBook. The fund will be called the Bitcoin Investment Trust.

"If you speak with people who have tried to purchase bitcoin in the past -
you'll hear, 'it's a difficult process,' 'it's a confusing process,' 'it's a
scary process,'" said Barry Silbert, the chief executive of SecondMarket, based
in New York. "We want to make it an accessible asset class."

SecondMarket's bitcoin venture is likely to feed the debate about the legitimacy
and legality of a form of money that exists outside the conventional banking
system and is sometimes used in illicit transactions. The technology investors
Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss announced the creation of a similar product a few
months ago, but their vehicle will be an exchange-traded fund, or E.T.F.,
accessible to all investors, meaning it must go through a lengthy and uncertain
review process with federal regulators.

MISSED OPPORTUNITY IN CASE INVOLVING JPMORGAN  | "Both the Securities and
Exchange Commission and JPMorgan Chase won great public relations victories last
week. But the public lost - and in ways that go far beyond this one spat," Jesse
Eisinger of ProPublica writes in his column, The Trade. "By cracking down on the
bank for its faulty internal controls in the $6 billion London Whale trading
loss, the S.E.C. can claim to be the ferocious regulator we have all been
waiting for. JPMorgan and its chief executive, Jamie Dimon, got the best
coverage they could have hoped for under the circumstances."

The admission of wrongdoing that the S.E.C. wrung from JPMorgan "was nice," Mr.
Eisinger writes, "but the S.E.C. did not charge any top executives with
misleading disclosure." Mr. Eisinger continues: "The Senate Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations, in its huge report on the trading loss, made a
convincing case that the chief financial officer at the time, Douglas L.
Braunstein, made several highly misleading statements in an April 13, 2012,
conference call with shareholders and the public."

DETROIT'S EXTRA PENSION PAYMENTS  | "Detroit's municipal pension fund made
payments for decades to retirees, active workers and others above and beyond
normal benefits, costing the struggling city billions of dollars and helping
push it into bankruptcy, according to people who have reviewed the payments,"
Mary Williams Walsh reports in DealBook. "The payments, which were not publicly
disclosed, included bonuses to retirees, supplements to workers not yet retired
and cash to the families of workers who died before becoming eligible to collect
a pension, according to reports by an outside actuary and other people with
knowledge of the matter."

A report on the pension system from Detroit's auditor general and inspector
general is expected to be released on Thursday. Ms. Walsh continues: "How much
each person received is not known. But available records suggest that the
trustees approving the payments did not discriminate; nearly everybody in the
plan received them. Most of the trustees on Detroit's two pension boards
represent organized labor, and for years they could outvote anyone who
challenged the payments."

ON THE AGENDA  | The third estimate of gross domestic product in the second
quarter is released at 8:30 a.m. Barry Silbert, the chief of SecondMarket, is on
CNBC at 6:30 a.m. Naval Ravikant, the chief executive of AngelList, which allows
companies to raise money under new rules, is on CNBC at 11 a.m. Chelsea Clinton
is on Bloomberg TV at 8:30 a.m. Hamilton E. James, president of the Blackstone
Group, is on Bloomberg TV at 11:15 a.m.

ORACLE'S VICTORY AT SEA  | Larry Ellison, the software billionaire who runs
Oracle, skipped a long-scheduled keynote address at his company's annual
conference in San Francisco this week so he could watch his sailing team from a
chase boat. Though his priorities were questioned, Oracle Team USA achieved
victory in the 34th America's Cup on Wednesday. It was the "greatest comeback in
America's Cup history and one of the most dramatic in any sport," The New York
Times writes.

ALIBABA HEADED TO NEW YORK FOR I.P.O.  | "No business represents the rapid rise
of the Internet in China quite like Alibaba, a company that is part eBay, part
Google and part PayPal," DealBook's Michael J. de la Merced writes. "Alibaba is
now moving forward with plans for one of the biggest initial public offerings
since Facebook's rocky debut last year - but in New York and not in its home
market. Much is at stake for the Chinese company, as well as its prospective
advisers and potential investors."

 |  Contact: @williamalden | E-mail

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

Mergers & Acquisitions »

Lixil of Japan to Buy Grohe for $4.1 Billion  |  The Japanese building products
company Lixil and the Development Bank of Japan have agreed to buy the German
bathroom fittings company Grohe for $4.1 billion. DealBook »

Concerns Mount Over J.C. Penney  |  The retailer's shares fell 15 percent on
Wednesday after Goldman Sachs debt analysts released a downbeat assessment of
its prospects, The Wall Street Journal writes. WALL STREET JOURNAL

Stryker to Buy MAKO Surgical for $1.65 Billion  |  The price of $30 a share
represents a huge 86 percent premium for MAKO, which makes tools for robotic
assisted surgery in orthopedics. DealBook »

Dr. Martens Said to Be in Advanced Talks to Be Sold  |
WALL STREET JOURNAL

It's Time for Gates to Part Ways With Microsoft  |  Bill Gates's many talents do
not include effectiveness as chairman, Robert Cyran of Reuters Breakingviews
writes. Under his leadership, Microsoft's board left Steven A. Ballmer, the
chief executive, in place too long. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS

INVESTMENT BANKING »

Blankfein's Message to Occupy Wall Street  |  On a panel at the Clinton Global
Initiative meeting on Wednesday afternoon, Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief
executive of Goldman Sachs, was asked to reflect on the second anniversary of
the Occupy Wall Street movement. "I would say to Occupy Wall Street that
business has helped lift more people out of poverty than philanthropy," he said,
according to CNBC. CNBC

Deutsche Bank Said to Propose a New Bond Platform  |  The German firm Deutsche
Bank "is trying to drum up interest with some of its largest competitors to
create a multidealer U.S. bond trading platform at the same time that asset
managers discuss ways to make buying and selling debt easier, according to
people familiar with the matter," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS

In China, the Case of the Disappearing Moguls  |  Several prominent tycoons in
China have recently disappeared from public view amid a corruption scandal that
may "indicate a fresh front in Chinese political infighting," The Wall Street
Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL

Barclays to End Wealth Management Services in 130 Countries  |  "This is part of
our new strategy, focusing on reducing complexity and competing where we can
win," a spokesman for Barclays told Reuters. REUTERS

PRIVATE EQUITY »

BlackBerry Cancels Conference Call to Discuss Results  |  BlackBerry said that
while its quarterly financial results would still be released, the call
scheduled for Friday had been called off because of a conditional and tentative
bid for the company. NEW YORK TIMES

Fairfax Chief Expresses Confidence Over BlackBerry Bid  |  "We wouldn't put our
name to such a high-profile deal if we didn't feel confident that at the end of
the day that our due diligence would be fine and we'd be able to finance it,"
Prem Watsa, the head of Fairfax Financial Holdings, told Reuters. REUTERS

HEDGE FUNDS »

A Hedge Fund Drama, With Hot Dogs  |  In a fictional script, Bess Levin of
Dealbreaker imagines what might have happened when Steven A. Cohen of SAC
Capital Advisors arranged for a hot dog truck to supply free food to the hedge
fund's employees. DEALBREAKER

Bank of England Says Hedge Funds Could Pose Risk to Stability  |  The financial
policy committee of the Bank of England said it planned to gather more
information on hedge funds so that "a more complete assessment of risks to
financial stability can be made." WALL STREET JOURNAL

I.P.O./OFFERINGS »

Twitter Strikes Advertising Pact With N.F.L.  |  The announcement about the deal
with the National Football League came after Twitter forged another advertising
deal with CBS. ALLTHINGSD

Fearing Change at a Publicly Traded Twitter  |  "Twitter is, fundamentally, a
strange, nearly surreal service. Unlike Facebook, it isn't for everyone. That's
what the initiated love about it - but now that Twitter is going public and
looking for growth, Twitter's inherent weirdness is at risk," Farhad Manjoo, a
columnist for The Wall Street Journal, writes. WALL STREET JOURNAL

VENTURE CAPITAL »

Tech Giants Fear Patent Wars in Europe  |  "In the United States, technology
companies like Google, Apple and Microsoft have spent years and hundreds of
millions of dollars to defend patent-infringement lawsuits by companies that
make a business of buying technology patents primarily for suing software
companies and makers of products like smartphones," The New York Times writes.
"Now they worry that Europe could soon become a broad battleground for similar
court battles." NEW YORK TIMES

LEGAL/REGULATORY »

ICAP to Pay $87 Million Fine in Libor-Fixing Case  |  The Justice Department
also brought criminal charges against three former ICAP employees on Wednesday
over their roles in manipulating the benchmark London interbank offered rate.
DEALBOOK

Things Traders Say, ICAP Edition  |  Curry meals, Champagne and steaks were
among the rewards promised to ICAP brokers, according to documents released on
Wednesday by authorities in a Libor manipulation case. DealBook »

Britain Sues Over Caps on Bankers' Bonuses  |  Britain said on Wednesday that it
had filed a lawsuit at the European Court of Justice contesting a proposed cap
on bankers' bonuses. DealBook »

Citigroup to Pay $395 Million in Freddie Mac Settlement  |
ASSOCIATED PRESS

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.



                              
 Week in Pictures for May 23

 

A slide show of photographs of the past week in New York City and the region
includes the National September 11 Memorial Museum, the planting of grass at a
beach in Queens, and the sentencing of an Occupy Wall Street protester.

This weekend on "The New York Times Close Up," an inside look at the most
compelling articles in Sunday's Times, Sam Roberts will speak with The Times's
Eleanor Randolph, Clyde Haberman, Kate Taylor and Thomas Kaplan; the playwright
Larry Kramer; and the authors Colson Whitehead and Donald Miller.

Tune in at 10 p.m. Saturday or 10 a.m. Sunday on NY1 News to watch.

Read current New York headlines and follow us on Twitter.



                              


 

In ''Her Term Is Up as Well,'' (Sunday Styles, Dec. 29), Ruth La Ferla profiled
Diana Taylor, the longtime companion of Michael R. Bloomberg and, for the last
12 years, the de facto first lady of New York. Readers commented at
nytimes.com/fashion.

I suspect that this partnership includes a fairly equal distribution of power in
that neither dominates the other except in their particular circle of talent.
That they have been together, seemingly harmoniously, for 13 years now speaks
volumes. As for marriage, why bother? If both sides are happy with things the
way they are, should public curiosity somehow taint their relationship? One
never knows how it feels to be inside a relationship except the couple
themselves. While not a New Yorker, I wish them well. She sounds like an ideal
consort and more than a match for a very interesting, tough, personality.

Christine Mcmorrow

Waltham, Mass.

Diana Taylor is someone I have known professionally for years. She is every bit
as unassuming as she has been described. She has earned every position she has
held and would not be with Mr. Bloomberg if she didn't want to be. I look up to
Diana. I hope my nieces grow up to be like her.

Runner510

Boston

As Ms. Taylor was a member of the Board of Directors of Brookfield Office
Properties, the owners of the public space known as Zuccotti Park, one must
question the personal relationship that led to Mayor Bloomberg's instructing the
police to forcibly sweep members of Occupy Wall Street from the plaza in 2011,
and subsequently bar them from the park despite a court order allowing them to
return. This is not an accusation of complicity on the part of Ms. Taylor, but
to dismiss the blurring of personal-professional-public duties and allegiances
would be willful ignorance.

NewYorkJoe

New York

Let's hear it for a first lady (or first companion) who stayed out of the news
media, consistently supported the mayor in his personal life and worked
full-time in her own career for 12 years.

David Binko

The Bronx

In addition to ''lending her financial acumen'' to Sotheby's, Diana Taylor was a
strong supporter of the union-busting management stance during one of the more
bitter labor strikes of recent years in New York. I guess it would be too much
to expect that such an accomplished and prominent person might come down on the
side of the working stiff.

Howard Chernick

N.Y.C.

I worked with her 20 years ago when she was head of an investment banking firm.
She was as fun and gracious then as she seems to be now: brilliant, with a ready
laugh and a crackling smile. So glad she is so happy and has retained her
strength of character.

Bink

Denver



                              
 The Beard Has Been Commodified

 

The gasps were audible when Jay Carney, the White House press secretary,
strolled to the briefing room podium last Monday sporting the unthinkable, at
least by Washington standards: a beard.

Within minutes, Mr. Carney's Bushwick-inflected fashion statement prompted barbs
on Twitter. ''Jay Carney rocks lumberjack-chic at the year's first press
conference,'' read one typical tweet, from the news site NowThis News.

Sure, conspicuous facial hair may have been ''out'' in Washington since Chester
A. Arthur's muttonchops, but the assembled reporters might have spared
themselves their ''whoas.'' The beard, until recently the scruffy fashion
statement of the plaid-shirt-and-craft-beer creative underclass, has lately been
institutionalized, co-opted by The Man not only in the form of pinstripe-clad
Beltway insiders, but by Wall Street titans, professional sports golden boys, Us
Weekly cover boys and morning-show television hosts.

Forget biker chic or even mixologist chic. For beard purists, Mr. Carney's
adoption of the whiskered look marked an inevitable mainstreaming of a look that
defined a subculture. To the Brooklyn set, it's an echo of that post-'60s moment
when longhair migrated from the muddy fields of Woodstock to crew-cut turf like
country music and the National Football League. To the culture at large, the
whiskered chin suddenly looks as divorced from its rebel origins as the Jolly
Roger flag on a Pittsburgh Pirates beer koozie.

Just consider how much the L-train look -- until recently, about as common as
lip piercings on Wall Street -- has been spotted on corner-office types, among
them Lloyd C. Blankfein, the Goldman Sachs chief executive; Gary W. Parr, the
Lazard vice chairman; and Carl C. Icahn, the financier.

''Beards are for going to Occupy Wall Street assemblies, not for Wall Street
elite assemblies,'' Daniel Gross wrote last year in The Daily Beast after the
steely Goldman chief inspired ''feverish speculation'' by showing up at the
World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, with what Mr. Gross described as ''a
tight, whitish-gray thatch of facial hair.'' Was this a sign, he joked, that Mr.
Blankfein ''is going casual,'' that he ''is thinking of taking up organic
farming and the banjo?''

Goldman investors need not have fretted. Beards, as common as ever on the
streets of Brooklyn, have shed their underground connotations. In Hollywood,
beards were once the province of bad boys (Russell Crowe) and madmen (Zach
Galifianakis). These days, however, the beard is the red carpet accessory of
choice for the contemporary pretty boy, which is why BuzzFeed recently had no
problem rounding up a full 51 of the ''hottest bearded men in Hollywood,''
including Ryan Gosling, Jon Hamm, Robert Pattinson and four dozen others.

The beard, too, has lost its anti-establishment potency in athletics. Just a few
years ago, Brian Wilson, then the San Francisco Giants' closer, could assume the
mantle of American sport's reigning eccentric by showing up on the mound with a
thick Blackbeard tangle.

Nowadays, the misfit beard has come to connote all-American values like teamwork
and leadership, to judge by the Duck Dynasty-style monstrosities sprouting from
the chins of numerous members of the 2013 World Series champion Boston Red Sox,
who cemented the trusty playoff beard as a cliché of rally cap proportions.

Andrew Luck, the Indianapolis Colts' Stanford-educated quarterback, mounted an
epic playoff comeback against the Kansas City Chiefs last weekend wearing a
beard (which some referred to as a ''neard,'' or neck beard) that made him look
like a bit player in ''Deliverance.''

But perhaps there are limits to the degree of chin bristles that mainstream
America will tolerate. When Matt Lauer and Al Roker of NBC's ''Today'' show
sprouted beards for November as part of a ''No-Shave Today'' campaign to support
men's health charities, Twitter was ablaze with hobo jokes. ''I think if I saw
either Al Roker or Matt Lauer on the corner, I would give him a quarter,'' a
user with the handle @PeterJOrvetti joked.

''We didn't just do this to look terrible, we did this to raise money,'' Mr.
Lauer explained on the show.

A noble sentiment, sure. But no truer expression of the ''establishment beard''
was ever spoken.



                              
 Emptying a Building Long Home to Activists

 

The three-story brick building at 9 Bleecker Street in Lower Manhattan, long a
celebrated bastion of countercultural activity, was in a state of transitional
disarray.

The upper floors were mostly emptied out, except for some stickers bearing
slogans like ''Impeach Reagan'' and ''No Nukes.'' Moving boxes were piled on the
ground floor on Monday, next to a framed copy of the manifesto of the Youth
International Party, or Yippies, a written time capsule from 1968 with lines
like ''They cut our hair, ban our music festivals, put cops and narcs in the
schools.''

For 40 years, the building has been a meeting place and way station for
freethinkers and political firebrands.

''Tens of thousands of people walked through that door or were impacted by the
social justice work done there,'' said Aron Kay, who lived in the building,
known as Number 9, from 1973 to 1978. The building, he added, ''survived all
these years when similar gathering spots around the country went under.''

But now it is Number 9's turn. Foreclosure proceedings led a State Supreme Court
judge, Jeffrey K. Oing, to order that the Yippies and their possessions vacate
the building, which they bought in 2004, by Friday to make way for new tenants.

In addition to Mr. Kay, known for flinging pies at ideological opponents like
the Watergate burglar G. Gordon Liddy, plenty of other storied figures passed
through the building. There was A. J. Weberman, who practiced garbology --
searching through the trash for information about people like Bob Dylan and John
N. Mitchell, the Nixon attorney general. And there were ''phone phreaks'' like
John Draper, who devised ways to hack into telephone systems and make free
long-distance calls. Some Yippies used those methods to carry on crank-call
battles with enemies that lasted years.

Decades' worth of marches supporting the legalization of marijuana were planned
there. So were protests during national political conventions. Newspapers were
printed on the building's top floor. People met on the second floor to
coordinate the distribution of medical marijuana. And in 1981 the ground floor
shook when a crude bomb detonated outside.

Although much of the activity there was rooted in the 1970s and '80s, the
Yippies made some changes at 9 Bleecker during the past decade. They created a
museum. There were comedy shows in the basement, and a cafe opened on the ground
floor. Younger people began visiting the building, including 20-something
musicians who performed there and activists from the Occupy Wall Street movement
who held meetings there.

Few are likely to miss the musty old structure as much as Dana Beal, a Yippie
whose residency goes back to 1973. He helped run a medical marijuana group
there, organized nationwide pro-marijuana rallies and spent decades promoting
the use of Ibogaine, a derivative of a West African shrub that is said to
counter addiction to opiates.

Mr. Beal, who is in prison in Nebraska after being convicted of transporting 150
pounds of marijuana in a van in 2009, said that he expected to be released in
February and had hoped to return to Bleecker Street.

''I call on Bill de Blasio to intervene to keep the Yippie Museum alive in
N.Y.C.,'' Mr. Beal said during a recent phone call. ''And my supporters can help
by finding me a spare room so I can come home to the city.''

Rob Gordon, a member of the group that bought the building, said that the
foreclosure fight would continue and that the Yippies could benefit from an
examination of evidence in the case. Nonetheless, Alice Torbush, the remaining
resident, said she planned to vacate the building by Friday. She said that some
of the building's contents would be put in storage. Other items would be donated
to archivists. Those include copies of newspapers printed at 9 Bleecker called
The Yipster Times and Overthrow, and other underground papers that she had
collected over the decades, like The Burning Spear, from Oakland, Calif., and
The Bi-Weekly Blah-Blah, printed in Madison, Wis.

On Monday afternoon, as volunteers carried boxes downstairs and resident cats
prowled the premises, Ms. Torbush toured the building with Mr. Beal's lawyer,
Noah Potter.

One of the volunteers, R. J. Cote, said that he had not been inside the building
in years, then reflected on its history.

''Rock musicians hung out here and activists of important national reputation,''
he said. ''You don't get a chance very often to walk into that kind of orbit,
right next to stars of the movement.''



                              
 Tech Rides Are Focus of Hostility in Bay Area

 

SAN FRANCISCO -- Like huge lumbering beasts, the luxury buses shuffle down
Valencia Street.

One by one, they stop in front of a hipster coffee shop. Bearded young techies
swipe their IDs as they board, clutching cups of premium coffee. One fellow
carries his dirty laundry. No one talks. The buses take off for the campuses of
Google, Apple, Facebook, Yahoo and eBay.

It seems like a mundane commuting scene. But it is not. A security guard hovers.
There might be trouble.

Even as the tech companies extend their global reach and jostle to own the
future, their hometown is turning from admiration to anger. The buses, which
illegally use city stops, have become an unlikely rallying point. First, people
were priced out of their homes, activists say; now they are being pushed off the
streets.

Demonstrators regularly block the shuttles. Last week, a group of activists
stalked a Google engineer at his East Bay house, urging the masses to ''Fight
evil. Join the revolution.'' A prominent venture capitalist struck back,
comparing the tech elite with persecuted Jews in Nazi Germany.

''We've never seen anything remotely like this before,'' said Gary Kamiya,
author of ''San Francisco, Cool Gray City of Love.'' ''Techies used to seem
endearing geeks, who made money and cute little products but couldn't get the
girls. Now they're the lord and masters.''

If the Bay Area is planning to relive the 1960s, it is still only the dawn of
the decade. The protesters are relatively few, fragmented and uncertain in their
tactics. The activists in San Francisco seem a bit more mainstream, while those
in the East Bay are more inclined to escalate their protest -- when they stopped
a Google bus in December, a window got smashed.

The group that stalked Anthony Levandowski, an engineer at Google X, the
company's clandestine research laboratory, calls itself the Counterforce, after
a Thomas Pynchon novel. About a dozen members, all dressed in black, gathered
outside the Berkeley house where Mr. Levandowski lives with his partner and two
young children.

They unfurled a banner and handed out fliers detailing the engineer's work on
Google's driverless car technology, Street View and Google Maps. The flier read:
''Anthony Levandowski is building an unconscionable world of surveillance,
control and automation. He is also your neighbor.''

Google, whose famous motto is ''Don't be evil,'' declined to comment.

Several of Mr. Levandowski's neighbors, who preferred not to give their names,
said that the protesters decamped after about half an hour and that city police
closely monitored the block for a day afterward. One neighbor speculated that
the protesters were associated with the Occupy Wall Street movement. ''It felt
like regular old Berkeley behavior, to tell you the truth,'' another said.

In many ways, it was. Mr. Levandowski's house used to be a part of a small
informal commune in the late 1960s. Tom Hayden, a founding member of the radical
group Students for a Democratic Society, lived there.

Conditions are ripe for another large-scale protest movement, Mr. Hayden said in
an interview.

''These days you have a very large, frustrated younger population watching the
middle class disappear before their eyes just as they prepare to go into it,''
he said. ''A rising, serious hostility against Google and companies like Google
is inevitable, part of a class struggle around the means of producing
information.''

If something has started, the outcome still depends on what the protesters do
and how the companies react.

''It's like one snowflake after another landing on a mountain,'' said Paul
Saffo, managing director at Discern Analytics. ''If conditions are just right,
there's an avalanche.''

Mr. Saffo, a longtime tech futurist, said the Bay Area had been sliding toward
an ''Occupy Silicon Valley'' situation for several years.

''The tech companies are going to discover they are going to have to become
better citizens,'' he said, pointing out that the sheen of corporate coolness is
already wearing off. Google, for instance, is reportedly paying an unnamed
midlevel engineer $3 million a year. ''Google is not doing this because they are
generous. They are doing it because that's what it takes to prevent him from
going anywhere else.''

The Counterforce leaflet, which included a photograph of Mr. Levandowski's Arts
and Crafts house taken from Google Street View, urges the masses to throw off
their chains, or at least their Google Glass, and ''join the revolution.''

Silicon Valley has now come full circle. It used to be where rebels and dropouts
went. One young man from the East Coast with a Harvard M.B.A., Tom Perkins, was
treated with such suspicion at Hewlett-Packard in 1957 that he was put to work
in the machine shop, running a lathe. You couldn't get any lower.

Mr. Perkins clawed his way up to being one of the founding financiers of the
valley, funding Tandem, a leading computer maker, and Genentech, which employs
12,000 people. The firm he co-founded, Kleiner Perkins Caufield Byers, is still
one of the leading venture capital shops, a backer of Google and Amazon.

In a letter to The Wall Street Journal last week, Mr. Perkins asserted that the
shadow of the Third Reich was falling over the Bay Area. He said that he was
worried about another Kristallnacht, where rampaging Nazis went after Jews,
looting and killing. The 1 percent -- Jews in Germany, the tech elite here --
were at risk from the crowds.

Mr. Perkins, who retired from Kleiner Perkins in 1986, told Bloomberg TV that he
regretted the Nazi comparison, but stuck by his point. ''We have to be careful
that we don't demonize anybody and that we certainly don't demonize the most
creative part of our society,'' he said.

What is at issue, however, is not Silicon Valley's creativity but its wealth,
and the sense of entitlement that brings. The tech companies' position on the
buses is this: We're not driving our own cars, jamming the roads and polluting
the air. We spend our money here in San Francisco, keeping high-end waiters and
baristas and boutiques salespeople gainfully employed. Be grateful.

The protesters, and increasingly the community, respond: If we parked at a bus
stop for just a moment, we would get a $279 ticket. Tech buses do it with
impunity. And how do you spend your money in San Francisco if you spend all day
30 miles away?

During a three-hour meeting at City Hall, angry residents complained that even a
low-income San Franciscan has to pay $2 to board a city bus while the city
planned to charge tech shuttles just $1 per stop per day, regardless of how many
workers got on or off.

''These companies should pay a handsome sum of money to the city, not just one
dollar,'' said a retired social worker, Herbert Weiner, 75. ''They are filthy
rich.''

City officials said that the amount they could charge such shuttles was limited
by state law to cost recovery and that charging a steeper fee would require a
citywide vote.

Private shuttles provide service for about 18,000 riders a day, the city says, a
total that includes some non-tech firms. Valencia Street, which is rapidly
shedding its low-income immigrant-Spanish roots to become a wonderland of
boutiques selling organic ice cream, $12 ''limited edition'' chocolate bars and
$5 cups of Karinga coffee from Kenya, provides a front-row stage for the
conflict.

Many of the buses are unidentified, bearing only notations like ''main campus --
Ridgeview,'' which means Apple. Facebook's buses are the most lavish, the kind
rock stars take to their gigs. Their wireless password: ''n0traffic.''

Residents say the tension in the neighborhood is palpable. Matteo Bittanti, an
art teacher, often sees pedestrians make a vulgar gesture toward the buses. He
understands the feeling. ''They look like an occupying force,'' he said, ''like
big, white, pristine tanks rolling down the street.''



                              
 U.S. Attitudes Toward Leadership

 

To the Editor:

In ''The Leaderless Doctrine'' (column, March 11), David Brooks argues that
public perception -- among Americans and beyond -- has shifted toward a
rejection of centralized leadership structures. Social and political movements
-- from the Arab Spring and Occupy Wall Street in 2011 to more recent events in
Brazil, Turkey and Ukraine -- suggest that political leadership has been
woefully inadequate in solving the social and political problems of our time.

Indeed, Americans are less interested in the interventionist, even imperialist,
foreign policies of the past. They want a world governed according to the
interests of everyday people -- and not military, corporate and political
elites.

Mr. Brooks argues that this flattening out of political organization reflects a
potentially new organization of power, one that involves withdrawing consent
(and thus delegitimizing leadership) as well as exerting what he terms ''the
power of the swarms.'' He concludes that such power is difficult to harness --
in his words, ''very hard to lead and summon.''

But evading social control is exactly the point. If a shift really has taken
place, it's that democratically minded movements are refusing to replicate the
authoritarian structures of the institutions they are opposing.

Mr. Brooks asserts that ''many people act as if history is leaderless.'' But
really, most people act as if history is made by leaders and heroes, when
exactly the opposite is true.

The rights enjoyed by feminists, racial and ethnic minorities, gay men and
women, our environment and our animals were all realized through grass-roots
action. We've always had to fight for them -- through highly organized and
prolonged struggle -- not with, but usually against, our leadership.

HEATHER GAUTNEY New York, March 12, 2014

The writer is an associate professor of sociology at Fordham University.

To the Editor:

David Brooks's commentary is a masterpiece of insight. In my view what's
happening today can be comprehended only against the background of the last
century, which was the hinge of American history.

More information and change were created in the 20th century than in the rest of
history combined: the collapse of empires; over 200 million people slaughtered
in wars or politically motivated carnage; the shift from an agricultural to an
industrial to an information society; the ability to destroy humanity; the
advent of artificial life; and on and on it goes.

We have yet to absorb these changes and incorporate them into some larger
context. Until we do, we shall be stumbling forward without any unity of thought
or purpose.

''Where there is no vision, the people perish'' (Proverbs 29:18). Who is helping
provide the needed vision today?

WILLIAM V. WISHARD Lake Ridge, Va., March 11, 2014

The writer is a former trends analyst and the author of ''Between Two Ages: The
21st Century and the Crisis of Meaning.''

To the Editor:

David Brooks writes that ''the veterans of World War II returned to civilian
life with a basic faith in big units.'' Can we also postulate that some, if not
most, returned home with knowledge that there's a larger world out there beyond
our protective oceans?

Military service historically offered citizens a chance to ''see the world.''
While there are many reasons young men and women enlist, military service has
been a way to experience diverse ethnicities and cultures. Moreover, military
service fostered teamwork, service above self, shared hardship and experiences
outside the norm for most Americans such as living in foreign lands.

We are too prone to isolationism and, frankly, xenophobia. The lack of citizen
participation in the military, in my view, leads to a greater lack of
understanding of life lived beyond our shores and will only serve as an
impediment to our citizens as members of the larger world community.

DON TARTASKY Annapolis, Md., March 11, 2014

The writer is a retired lieutenant colonel in the Air Force and State Department
employee.



                              
 After the Protests

 

LAST Wednesday, more than 100,000 people showed up in Istanbul for a funeral
that turned into a mass demonstration. No formal organization made the call. The
news had come from Twitter: Berkin Elvan, 15, had died. He had been hit in the
head by a tear-gas canister on his way to buy bread during the Gezi protests
last June. During the 269 days he spent in a coma, Berkin's face had become a
symbol of civic resistance shared on social media from Facebook to Instagram,
and the response, when his family tweeted ''we lost our son'' and then a funeral
date, was spontaneous.

Protests like this one, fueled by social media and erupting into spectacular
mass events, look like powerful statements of opposition against a regime. And
whether these take place in Turkey, Egypt or Ukraine, pundits often speculate
that the days of a ruling party or government, or at least its unpopular
policies, must be numbered. Yet often these huge mobilizations of citizens
inexplicably wither away without the impact on policy you might expect from
their scale.

This muted effect is not because social media isn't good at what it does, but,
in a way, because it's very good at what it does. Digital tools make it much
easier to build up movements quickly, and they greatly lower coordination costs.
This seems like a good thing at first, but it often results in an unanticipated
weakness: Before the Internet, the tedious work of organizing that was required
to circumvent censorship or to organize a protest also helped build
infrastructure for decision making and strategies for sustaining momentum. Now
movements can rush past that step, often to their own detriment.

In Spain, protesters who called themselves the Indignados (the outraged) took to
public squares in large numbers in 2011, yet the austerity policies they opposed
are still in effect. Occupy Wall Street filled Lower Manhattan in October 2011,
crystallizing the image of the 99 percent versus the 1 percent without forcing a
change in the nation's widening inequality. And in Egypt, Tahrir Square
protesters in January 2011 used social media to capture the world's attention.
Later that year, during clashes in the square, four people in their 20s used
Google spreadsheets, mobile communication and Twitter to coordinate supplies for
10 field hospitals that cared for the wounded. But three years later, a
repressive military regime is back in power.

Thousands of people turned out in Istanbul last June to defy the government's
plan to raze Gezi Park, in spite of the fact that the heavily censored mass
media had all but ignored the initial protests, broadcasting documentaries about
penguins instead of the news. Four college students organized a citizen
journalism network that busted censorship 140 characters at a time. I met
parents at the protests who were imploring their children to teach them how to
use Twitter as it became a real-time newswire, an organizing tool and a
communication device for those in the park and its surroundings. One protester
told me, ''Internet brings freedom.''

But after all that, in the approaching local elections, the ruling party is
expected to retain its dominance.

Compare this with what it took to produce and distribute pamphlets announcing
the Montgomery bus boycott in 1955. Jo Ann Robinson, a professor at Alabama
State College, and a few students sneaked into the duplicating room and worked
all night to secretly mimeograph 52,000 leaflets to be distributed by hand with
the help of 68 African-American political, religious, educational and labor
organizations throughout the city. Even mundane tasks like coordinating car
pools (in an era before there were spreadsheets) required endless hours of
collaborative work.

By the time the United States government was faced with the March on Washington
in 1963, the protest amounted to not just 300,000 demonstrators but the
committed partnerships and logistics required to get them all there -- and to
sustain a movement for years against brutally enforced Jim Crow laws. That
movement had the capacity to leverage boycotts, strikes and demonstrations to
push its cause forward. Recent marches on Washington of similar sizes, including
the 50th anniversary march last year, also signaled discontent and a desire for
change, but just didn't pose the same threat to the powers that be.

Social media can provide a huge advantage in assembling the strength in numbers
that movements depend on. Those ''likes'' on Facebook, derided as slacktivism or
clicktivism, can have long-term consequences by defining which sentiments are
''normal'' or ''obvious'' -- perhaps among the most important levers of change.
That's one reason the same-sex marriage movement, which uses online and offline
visibility as a key strategy, has been so successful, and it's also why
authoritarian governments try to ban social media.

During the Gezi protests, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan called Twitter and
other social media a ''menace to society.'' More recently, Turkey's Parliament
passed a law greatly increasing the government's ability to censor online
content and expand surveillance, and Mr. Erdogan said he would consider blocking
access to Facebook and YouTube. It's also telling that one of the first moves by
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia before annexing Crimea was to shut down
the websites of dissidents in Russia.

Media in the hands of citizens can rattle regimes. It makes it much harder for
rulers to maintain legitimacy by controlling the public sphere. But activists,
who have made such effective use of technology to rally supporters, still need
to figure out how to convert that energy into greater impact. The point isn't
just to challenge power; it's to change it.



                              
 Economic Post Will Be Filled by Ex-Banker Close to Mayor

 

Mayor Bill de Blasio has a complicated relationship with New York City's
business elite, many of whom view his populist agenda with skepticism and, in
some cases, disdain.

So to fill a key economic post in his administration, Mr. de Blasio is turning
to the banker he knows best.

The mayor on Thursday plans to name Michael Schlein, a close friend with deep
ties to Wall Street, as chairman of the Economic Development Corporation, the
powerful nonprofit arm of City Hall that frequently negotiates with corporate
giants on issues like real estate and public subsidies.

With the appointment, Mr. de Blasio installs a close ally at an influential
agency still run primarily by officials hired during the administration of his
predecessor, Michael R. Bloomberg. Mr. de Blasio chose to keep the current
president, Kyle Kimball, whom Mayor Bloomberg appointed in August.

Mr. Schlein, 53, has a résumé that is highly palatable to Mr. de Blasio's
sensibilities: A former aide to two mayors and a onetime senior executive at
Citigroup, he left investment banking to become chief executive of Accion, a
nonprofit microfinance firm that funds projects in many underdeveloped
countries.

The mayor and Mr. Schlein have a long history, dating to their days as young
aides in the administration of Mayor David N. Dinkins. They and their families
have remained close, even as Mr. Schlein crossed over into the corporate world,
whose excesses Mr. de Blasio has often protested; the two were known to engage
in dinner-table debates over bankers' bonuses and the Occupy Wall Street
movement.

When Mr. de Blasio's wife, Chirlane McCray, worked briefly in the private
sector, it was as a corporate speechwriter at Citigroup, under Mr. Schlein.

Last year, as Mr. de Blasio ramped up his mayoral campaign, Mr. Schlein squired
him through the hallways of the city's financial sector, vouching for a
candidate viewed warily by bankers turned off by his proposal to raise taxes on
the rich.

Mr. Schlein's new position is unpaid, and he will remain in his role at Accion,
a firm with its own close ties to city government: Diana L. Taylor, Mr.
Bloomberg's girlfriend, is chairwoman of its board.

The Economic Development Corporation brought ferries to the East River and
persuaded Cornell University to build a campus on Roosevelt Island. But it also
earned critics in the Bloomberg years for offering public subsidies to companies
like JetBlue and FreshDirect that had threatened to leave the city.

In an interview, Mr. Schlein said he would take a more measured approach on the
question of corporate subsidies, saying the city was now ''in a position of
relative strength.''

''I think we no longer need to use tax incentives to get companies and people to
come to New York City,'' he said. ''New York City is a magnet for talent and
employees, and I completely agree with Mayor de Blasio's view that we need to be
more prudent in how we use that tool.''



                              
 Marx Rises Again

 

IN the season of resurrection, it's fitting that he's with us once again --
bearded, prophetic, moralistic, promising to exalt the humble and cast down the
mighty from their thrones.

Yes, that's right: Karl Marx is back from the dead.

Not on a Soviet-style scale, mercifully, and not with the kind of
near-scriptural authority that many Marxists once invested in him. But Marxist
ideas are having an intellectual moment, and attention must be paid.

As Timothy Shenk writes in a searching essay for The Nation, there are two
pillars to the current Marxist revival. One is the clutch of young intellectuals
Shenk dubs the ''Millennial Marxists,'' whose experience of the financial crisis
inspired a new look at Old Karl's critique of capitalism. The M.M.'s have Occupy
Wall Street as a failed-but-interesting political example; they have new-ish
journals (Jacobin, The New Inquiry, n + 1) where they can experiment and argue;
they are beginning to produce books, two of which Shenk reviews and praises.

What they lack, however, is a synthesis, a story, of the kind that Marx himself
offered. This is where the other pillar rises -- Thomas Piketty's ''Capital in
the Twenty-First Century,'' a sweeping interpretation of modern economic trends
recently translated from the French, and the one book this year that everyone in
my profession will be required to pretend to have diligently read.

Piketty himself is a social democrat who abjures the Marxist label. But as his
title suggests, he is out to rehabilitate and recast one of Marx's key ideas:
that so-called ''free markets,'' by their nature, tend to enrich the owners of
capital at the expense of people who own less of it.

This idea seemed to be disproved in the 20th century, by the emergence of a
prosperous, non-revolutionary working class. But Piketty argues that those
developments were transitory, made possible mostly by the massive destruction of
inherited capital during the long era of world war.

Absent another such disruption, he expects a world in which the returns to
capital permanently outstrip -- as they have recently -- the returns to labor,
and inequality rises far beyond even today's levels. Combine this trend with
slowing growth, and we face a future like the 19th-century past, in which vast
inherited fortunes bestride the landscape while the middle class fractures,
weakens, shrinks.

Piketty's dark vision relies, in part, on economic models I am unqualified to
assess. But it also relies on straightforward analysis of recent trends in
Western economies, and here a little doubt-raising is in order.

In particular, as the Manhattan Institute's Scott Winship has pointed out,
Piketty's data seems to understate the income gains enjoyed by most Americans
over the last two generations. These gains have not been as impressive as during
the post-World War II years, but they do exist: For now, even as the rich have
gotten much, much richer, the 99 percent have shared in growing prosperity in
real, measurable ways.

Winship's point raises the possibility that even if Piketty's broad projections
are correct, the future he envisions might be much more stable and sustainable
than many on the left tend to assume. Even if the income and wealth
distributions look more Victorian, that is, the 99 percent may still be doing
well enough to be wary of any political movement that seems too radical, too
utopian, too inclined to rock the boat.

This possibility might help explain why the far left remains, for now,
politically weak even as it enjoys a miniature intellectual renaissance. And it
might hint at a reason that so much populist energy, in both the United States
and Europe, has come from the right instead -- from movements like the Tea
Party, Britain's UKIP, France's National Front and others that incorporate some
Piketty-esque arguments (attacks on crony capitalism; critiques of
globalization) but foreground cultural anxieties instead.

The taproot of agitation in 21st-century politics, this trend suggests, may
indeed be a Marxian sense of everything solid melting into air. But what's felt
to be evaporating could turn out to be cultural identity -- family and faith,
sovereignty and community -- much more than economic security.

And somewhere in this pattern, perhaps, lies the beginnings of a more
ideologically complicated critique of modern capitalism -- one that draws on
cultural critics like Daniel Bell and Christopher Lasch rather than just looking
to material concerns, and considers the possibility that our system's greatest
problem might not be the fact that it lets the rich claim more money than
everyone else. Rather, it might be that both capitalism and the welfare state
tend to weaken forms of solidarity that give meaning to life for many people,
while offering nothing but money in their place.

Which is to say that while the Marxist revival is interesting enough, to become
more relevant it needs to become a little more ... reactionary.



                              
 For Police, Gallery of Embarrassment

 

When the New York Police Department asked Twitter users on Tuesday to share
their photographs with police officers, they were perhaps expecting a few
feel-good neighborhood scenes or tourists with police horses in Times Square.

A few posted pictures of themselves with officers, smiling.

Most did not.

Almost immediately after the call went out from the department's official
Twitter account, storms of users took the opportunity to instead attach some of
the most unfavorable images of New York City officers that could be found on the
Internet. And judging by the output on Tuesday, there are quite a few.

Officers holding down a photographer on the pavement and a white-shirted
supervisor twisting an arm, among scores taken during Occupy Wall Street
protests. An officer knocking a bicyclist to the ground during a Critical Mass
protest ride, and another dancing provocatively with a barely clad paradegoer.

A dog being shot. Officers on trial, or sleeping in uniform on a subway train.

It was an embarrassing stumble for what has, in recent weeks, been an aggressive
effort by the Police Department to engage with New Yorkers on social media,
particularly on the short messaging service.

Five commanders around the city were deputized by the department to write their
own Twitter messages and began doing so last week. So far, the posts have stuck
to local information, smiling posed photographs and, on Sunday, a number of
self-consciously cute pictures from an Easter egg hunt in Queens.

Commissioner William J. Bratton has been active on his own Twitter account for
months. Relying on an officer from the department's communications team to write
most of the messages, Mr. Bratton's account has included semiofficial messages
-- as in a series of posts from a closed-door meeting of top chiefs in January
-- and pictures that track his daily movements, whether at a recent set of gang
arrests in the Bronx or during his visit to Boston on Monday.

The Police Department has in the past enjoyed some success with viral images
that captured attention online, including of an officer seen giving a pair of
boots to a homeless man in 2012.

''Do you have a photo w/a member of the NYPD?'' read the department's message,
sent on its official Twitter account, @NYPDnews. ''Tweet us & tag it #myNYPD. It
may be featured on our Facebook.''

For a time on Tuesday, that hashtag, developed by the department's social media
team, rose to the top 10 shared by Twitter users, not only in New York but
around the world.

''Who would have thought #myNYPD wouldn't be what @NYPDNews thought it should
be?'' wrote Zeynep Tufekci, a fellow at Princeton University's Center for
Information Technology Policy. ''Welcome to the 21st century, folks.''

A spokeswoman for the department, Deputy Chief Kim Y. Royster, said in a
two-sentence statement Tuesday evening that the department was ''creating new
ways to communicate effectively with the community'' and that Twitter provided
''an open forum for an uncensored exchange'' that is ''good for our city.''

The experience will not stop the department from pushing forward with social
media endeavors, its top spokesman, Stephen Davis, said. ''You take the good
with the bad,'' he said.



                              
 Mayor Names Chief of Agency Overseeing Sick Pay Law

 

Mayor Bill de Blasio announced on Thursday the appointment of a former
regulatory lawyer, well known for her efforts to revitalize Lower Manhattan
after the Sept. 11 attacks, to head the Department of Consumer Affairs -- an
agency enforcing compliance with New York City's paid sick leave law.

The new department head, Julie Menin, 46, a former chairwoman of Manhattan
Community Board 1, has a diverse résumé. She is a former host of ''Give and
Take,'' a current-events talk show that was broadcast on NBC; a former caterer
and small-business owner; a founder of the nonprofit organization Wall Street
Rising, formed to support the rebuilding of the financial district; and most
recently, an unsuccessful candidate for Manhattan borough president.

Ms. Menin's experiences seemed to fit the stated aims of the de Blasio
administration, one that tries to balance its liberal agenda with effective
governance.

As a community board chairwoman, Ms. Menin led her district through the unrest
of Occupy Wall Street and the controversy surrounding a plan for an Islamic
center and mosque near ground zero.

''I watched with real admiration how Julie handled these extraordinarily
complicated and difficult issues with grace, with focus, with clear, strong,
progressive opinions, but with a real ability to work with everyone,'' Mr. de
Blasio said on Thursday.

Mr. de Blasio, who has criticized tactics of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's
administration that he saw as unfairly targeting small businesses, said Ms.
Menin's former careers as a regulatory lawyer and a small-business owner would
make her empathetic to both consumers and business people. He invited
small-business owners to City Hall for the announcement on Thursday.

Ms. Menin said Wall Street Rising was focused on helping small businesses
re-establish themselves after Sept. 11.

''In that capacity,'' she said, ''I heard time and time again on countless
occasions from small businesses who did not understand why they were receiving
punitive fines and, quite honestly, did not know how to even fix the problem.''

But one of the agency's biggest and most immediate tasks will be to enforce
compliance with the paid sick leave law, which requires certain employers,
including companies with five or more employees hired to work more than 80 hours
in a calendar year, to provide up to five paid days off to workers if they or
their close relatives are ill.

The law went into effect on April 1. Ms. Menin said qualified employees could
begin using their days on July 30.

Though the law requires that public service advertising be listed in six
languages, she said the agency would do more. ''We're going to be translating
into many, many languages to ensure that we're reaching communities all across
the city,'' she said.



                              
 The Piketty Phenomenon

 

Many people join the political left driven by a concern for the poor. But, over
the past several years, the Democratic Party has talked much more about the
middle class than the poor. Meanwhile, progressive political movements like
Occupy Wall Street directed their fervor at the top 1 percent. Progressive
movies and books have focused their attention on conspiracy and oligarchy at the
top, not ''Grapes of Wrath'' or ''How the Other Half Lives'' stories at the
bottom.

This is natural. The modern left is led by smart professionals -- academics,
activists, people in the news media, the arts and so on -- who tend to live in
and around coastal cities.

If you are a young professional in a major city, you experience inequality
firsthand. But the inequality you experience most acutely is not inequality
down, toward the poor; it's inequality up, toward the rich.

You go to fund-raisers or school functions and there are always hedge fund
managers and private equity people around. You get more attention than them at
parties, but your whole apartment could fit in their dining room. You struggle
with tuition, but their kids go off on ski weekends. You wait in line at the
post office, but they have staff to do it for them.

You see firsthand the explosion of wealth at the tippy-top. It really doesn't
help that you have to spend your days kissing up to the oligarchs and their
foundations to finance your research, exhibition or favorite cause.

The situation is ripe for the sort of class conflict the French sociologist
Pierre Bourdieu used to describe: pitting those who are rich in cultural capital
against those who are rich in financial capital.

And into this fray wanders Thomas Piketty. His book ''Capital in the
Twenty-First Century'' argues that the real driver of inequality is not
primarily differences in human capital. It's differences in financial capital.
Inequality is not driven by young hip professionals who arm their kids with
every advantage and get them into competitive colleges; it's driven by hedge
fund oligarchs. Well, of course, this book is going to set off a fervor that
some have likened to Beatlemania.

The book is very good and interesting, but it has pretty obvious weaknesses.
Though economists are really not good at predicting the future, Piketty makes a
series of educated guesses about the next century.

Piketty predicts that growth will be low for a century, though there seems to be
a lot of innovation around. He predicts that the return on capital will be high,
though there could be diminishing returns as the supply increases. He predicts
that family fortunes will concentrate, though big ones in the past have tended
to dissipate and families like the Gateses give a lot away. Human beings are
generally treated in aggregate terms, without much discussion of individual
choice.

But those self-acknowledged weaknesses are overlooked. And his policy agenda is
perfectly suited to his market audience. The problem with those who stress
financial capital inequality over human capital inequality is that up until now
they have described a big problem but they have no big proposal to address it.
Now they do: a global wealth tax. Piketty proposes that all the governments in
the world, or at least the big ones, get together, find all the major wealth in
the world and then tax capital progressively.

Piketty wouldn't raise taxes on income, which thriving professionals have a lot
of; he would tax investment capital, which they don't have enough of. Think of
what would happen to the Manhattan or Bay Area real estate markets if the
financiers had to sell their stray apartments in order to get liquid assets to
pay the tax bill. Think of how much more affordable fine art would be. Think of
how much more equal the upper class would be.

Politically, the global wealth tax is utopian, as even Piketty understands. If
the left takes it up, they are marching onto a bridge to nowhere. But, in the
current mania, it is being embraced.

This is a moment when progressives have found their worldview and their agenda.
This move opens up a huge opportunity for the rest of us in the center and on
the right. First, acknowledge that the concentration of wealth is a concern with
a beefed up inheritance tax.

Second, emphasize a contrasting agenda that will reward growth, saving and
investment, not punish these things, the way Piketty would. Support progressive
consumption taxes not a tax on capital. Third, emphasize that the historically
proven way to reduce inequality is lifting people from the bottom with human
capital reform, not pushing down the top. In short, counter angry progressivism
with unifying uplift.

The reaction to Piketty is an amazing cultural phenomenon. But it says more
about class rivalry within the educated classes than it does about how to really
expand opportunity. Of course, this perspective could just be my own prejudice.
When it comes to cultural analysis, I, like Piketty, am quasi-Marxist.



                              
 Despite Twitter Backlash, Police Dept. Plans to Expand Social Media
Efforts

 

For the first few months of his second tour as commissioner of the New York
Police Department, William J. Bratton has been consumed in large part with
reshaping perceptions of officers.

He has announced that new recruits would be better trained in community
relations; that the police would be more ''collaborative,'' an oft-heard new
buzzword; and, as he told a closed-door meeting of chiefs and supervisors in
January, that his administration would use social media to bring positive police
stories directly to the public.

''How do we utilize that in a way to get our message out more significantly
without having to rely on the media to tell our story?'' Mr. Bratton asked
rhetorically, according to a video of the meeting reviewed by The New York
Times.

So at a social media strategy meeting two weeks ago, when a detective in charge
of the department's Twitter account floated the idea of soliciting photos of
ordinary people posing with officers, it hardly struck anyone as risky. It was
rapidly approved, and the detective chose a hashtag: #myNYPD.

The response was immediate, if not in the way Mr. Bratton had anticipated. In
tens of thousands of messages over just a few hours on Tuesday, Twitter users
provided not smiling snapshots but a rushing commentary on every controversy and
harsh police tactic of the last few years, including the stop-and-frisk policy,
the bloodying of Occupy Wall Street protesters and police shootings.

The flood of uncomfortable photographs rattled some officers on the street, who
quietly questioned the wisdom of opening up to the crowds on Twitter. Many on
social media scoffed at what they said was a public-relations debacle.

But to Zachary Tumin, tapped by Mr. Bratton to drag the department into the
roiling waters of Twitter and other social media, it was a signal to the city
and its police officers that the department was comfortable trying new things,
even if the blowback was large and public.

''It is an unalloyed good,'' Mr. Tumin, the deputy commissioner for strategic
initiatives, said in an interview.

That response was also Mr. Bratton's. He made light of the episode afterward,
like a showman insisting there is no such thing as bad publicity, and said that
it would in no way change the department's approach.

''If anything, I welcome the extra attention,'' Mr. Bratton said. (The
department gained some 4,000 followers, Mr. Tumin said.)

It also reflects a broad trend in law enforcement, said Nancy Kolb, who tracks
social media for the International Association of Chiefs of Police. She said the
response was not a problem but ''a learning lesson.''

Others have been more blunt. ''I would call this a rookie move,'' said Scott
Galloway, a professor of marketing at New York University. ''Doing it on Twitter
is no different as if they'd changed their uniforms to bull's-eyes.''

An aggressive push on social media has been an important part of Mr. Bratton's
early tenure, evidence of which can be found in the proximity of Mr. Tumin's
office to Mr. Bratton's; a few short steps down a 14th-floor corridor in Police
Headquarters.

About 10 members of the department now work for Mr. Tumin, a former head of
public safety for New York City schools and the co-author with Mr. Bratton of a
book for business leaders, ''Collaborate or Perish!''

The push aims beyond Twitter and Facebook, Mr. Tumin said. Having local
commanders posting their own messages to social media, as a few have this month,
is a critical step in getting them comfortable with making their own decisions
in the communities they police.

''This is a very, very big move for this department,'' Mr. Tumin said. ''It's
about unfreezing it. It's about encouraging the men and women in command
positions to take action and use the discretion of their positions with which
they are entrusted.''

How that will take shape in practice has yet to be seen, but it is a message
meant to draw a bright line between Mr. Bratton and his predecessor, Raymond W.
Kelly, who concentrated much of the decision-making for the department at
headquarters.

As if to underscore the difference, a precinct commander who was made to stop
posting on Twitter after attracting unwanted attention in 2012 was one of five
commanders newly deputized to post messages. (''I'm back!'' the commander,
Deputy Inspector Jeffrey D. Schiff, announced from his Queens precinct's
account.)

Detectives have long drawn on Facebook, Instagram and other social media posts
in their investigations, and one recent study suggested Twitter could help
predict crime patterns. Mr. Tumin did not address that research, but said social
media could help officers to see new patterns in the noise of city life. ''The
department runs on patterns,'' he said.

So far, the commanders on Twitter have hewed closely to missing-persons reports,
traffic advisories and photos of crime suspects. But a few have been inventive.
An Easter egg hunt with officers in Forest Hills, Queens, was the brainchild of
the local commander, Captain Thomas J. Conforti.

''The first person to approach the officers and give the code word wins!'' he
wrote on Twitter. Mr. Bratton, on his official account, reposted photographs of
smiling winners and officers.

It was not the first time the Police Department had enjoyed success in spreading
positive messages va social media: A picture of an officer giving boots to a
homeless man in Times Square in 2012 rocketed around the Internet, briefly
turning the officer into something of a celebrity.

But the department has mostly tread warily, and fallen behind.

The Boston Police Department has attracted many more followers on Twitter, in
part because of its aggressive effort to disseminate information, and knock down
rumors, after the marathon attack last year.

To build connections in the absence of events, officers in places like Seattle
and Philadelphia regularly tweet with department approval, including on
''tweet-alongs'' in which they provide updates from their daily tours.

Such campaigns are coming to New York, Mr. Tumin said. By June, he anticipated
there would be 10 more tweeting precincts, and at some point soon all 99
precinct and borough commanders ''will be tweeting, and maybe on Facebook and
maybe they'll have microsites of their own,'' he said. ''Our job,'' he added, is
''to set the guardrails, as the commissioner said, and then trust in their
judgment.''

He said he trusted the judgment of the detective, Scott C. Glick, who conceived
of the #myNYPD message. The notion ''did not make a splash'' when Detective
Glick brought it to one of the department's social media strategy sessions,
which are held every Tuesday and Friday morning and include 10 or 15 people from
different areas of the department Mr. Tumin said.

He said the response reflected ''deep veins of antipathy'' to the police, but he
was upbeat about confronting the challenge.

''We are still at a time in the New York Police Department when there is healing
to do,'' he said. ''There is much work to do here.''



                              
 Paperback Row

 

ROBERT OPPENHEIMER: A Life Inside the Center, by Ray Monk. (Anchor, $20.) Monk
emphasizes Oppenheimer's psychological complexity and his contributions to
physics as he brings the ''father of the atomic bomb'' vividly to life -- from
his tenure as the director of the Los Alamos laboratory to his exile under
McCarthyite anti-Communism. THE GIRLS OF ATOMIC CITY: The Untold Story of the
Women Who Helped Win World War II, by Denise Kiernan. (Touchstone/Simon &
Schuster, $16.) In 1945, the town of Oak Ridge, Tenn., had 75,000 residents and
used more electricity than New York City. As Kiernan explains in this engaging
history, Oak Ridge was home to the Manhattan Project's top-secret uranium
enrichment facilities, staffed by young women who learned the true nature of
their work only after the first bomb fell on Hiroshima.

THE RETROSPECTIVE, by A. B. Yehoshua. Translated by Stuart Schoffman.
(Mariner/Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $14.95.) Yair Moses, an aging Israeli film
director and the protagonist of Yehoshua's searching novel of art and ethics,
has been invited to the pilgrimage city of Santiago de Compostela for a
retrospective of his work. There he encounters a painting that overshadows the
celebration and spurs him to salvage his relationship with a brilliant but
difficult screenwriter.

DOES JESUS REALLY LOVE ME?: A Gay Christian's Pilgrimage in Search of God in
America, by Jeff Chu. (Harper Perennial, $15.99.) Troubled that so many churches
deny gay, often conflicted believers the solace of a place to worship, Chu
roamed the country for a year, visiting religious leaders who are all over the
map on homosexuality, and gay people struggling to reconcile their faith. ''Chu
has written a fascinating, thoughtful and important book,'' Dan Savage said
here.

RED DOC, by Anne Carson. (Vintage Contemporaries, $15.95.) Over a career
spanning some 30 years and books of poetry, prose, drama and translation, Carson
has found new ways to reinvent classical myths. An impulse to mischief is behind
the bizarreness of ''Red Doc>,'' a verse-novel sequel to ''Autobiography of
Red'' that reunites Herakles and the winged monster Geryon, sending them on a
phantasmagoric road trip.

DAYS OF DESTRUCTION, DAYS OF REVOLT, by Chris Hedges and Joe Sacco. (Nation
Books, $16.99.) This timely and disquieting polemic -- a combination of literary
journalism (Hedges) and graphic art (Sacco) -- reports on daily life in four
corners of 21st-century American poverty: Pine Ridge, S.D.; Camden, N.J.; Welch,
W.Va.; and Immokalee, Fla. The final chapter takes place in New York City, at
the center of the Occupy Wall Street movement.

GONE GIRL, by Gillian Flynn. (Broadway, $15.) A couple's marriage goes terribly
wrong in Flynn's novel of psychological suspense. On the morning of her fifth
wedding anniversary, Amy Dunne vanishes from her Missouri home, and her husband,
Nick, a magazine writer with the looks of a ''rich-boy villain in an '80s teen
movie,'' suffers the painful transformation from distressed spouse to suspected
murderer. Our reviewer, Marilyn Stasio, praised Flynn's ''quicksilver mind and
diabolical rules of play.''



                              
 Reverend Billy Brings a New Sermon to Joe's Pub

 

During Occupy Wall Street a few years ago, the Miser moseyed over to Zuccotti
Park for a firsthand look. A singular figure in a white suit over clerical garb
and collar, his blond-highlighted pompadour bopping in sync with his
sermonizing, stood out.

He immediately called to mind an angry televangelist, a species the Miser
happens to know, having grown up mere miles down the road from Jim and Tammy
Faye Bakker's empire and alongside sheep from the flocks of Falwell, Swaggart
and Robertson.

But the Bible tells us not to judge, and sure enough, while this pastor, who
went by Reverend Billy, was as telegenic as his predecessors, his preaching
couldn't have been more different. Reverend Billy, also known as Bill Talen, is
not exactly a man of God but rather a primate of the Church of Stop Shopping, a
veteran street activist and an Obie-winning performer.

More recently, Reverend Billy and his several-dozen-strong Stop Shopping Choir
have turned their focus to environmental activism. On Sunday afternoon, Joe's
Pub will become their cabaret-tabernacle for ''The Honeybeelujah! Show,'' which
highlights the fate of the honeybee in the face of the Harvard-designed RoboBee
drones intended to replace it.

Tickets are $15 and can be reserved on Joe's Pub website, so you won't have to
wait until the next time Reverend Billy and singers spontaneously swarm Times
Square or infest an unsuspecting conglomerate's lobby. The show runs through
June 22.

(Sunday at 2 p.m., 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village;
212-967-7555, joespub.com.)

MUSIC AND ART IN QUEENS

The effort and expense involved in reviving a musical means that typically only
critical and commercial successes enter the canon. Rodgers and Hammerstein
achieved that consensus with shows like ''Oklahoma!,'' ''South Pacific'' and
''The Sound of Music,'' all of which have been mounted and remounted in
countless settings.

In 1947 Rodgers and Hammerstein conceived the artistically ambitious
''Allegro.'' It polarized critics, ended early and is rarely revived. This
weekend, at the Good Shepherd United Methodist Church in Queens, you can judge
for yourself at the Astoria Performing Arts Center's production, which runs
through next weekend. Tickets are $18; $12 for students and adults over 65.

(Friday at 8 p.m.; Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m.; 30-44 Crescent Street, at 30th
Road, Astoria; 718-706-5750, apacny.org.)

Another great reason to be in Queens on Saturday: the L.I.C. Springs! festival.
Four blocks of Vernon Boulevard in Long Island City will feature music, art,
exercise and dance classes. The festival coincides with the L.I.C. Arts Open and
the L.I.C. Flea.

(Saturday from 1 to 6 p.m., Vernon Boulevard between 50th and 46th Avenues, Long
Island City; licpartnership.org.)



                              
 From a Prison Cell to the Red Carpet

 

''Where's Nadya?''

It's a drizzly Friday in Manhattan, and a group of art publicists is perched
outside an auditorium at the Frieze Art Fair, trying to wrangle two founding
members of the protest group Pussy Riot into a waiting car.

Maria Alekhina is present, in thick-rimmed glasses and unruly blond curls, a
pink clutch (a gift from a fan) underneath her arm. The husband of Nadya (also
known as Nadezhda) Tolokonnikova is chatting with a reporter about taking
surfing lessons on a trip to Los Angeles. The group's interpreter is there, too.

But Ms. Tolokonnikova has wandered off, perhaps surveying the exhibits -- part
of the art show where she and Ms. Alekhina, who goes by Masha, have just
finished a talk.

She re-emerges moments later, with a security-guard escort and a wry smile. Her
T-shirt is emblazoned with the masked face of Subcomandante Marcos, the Mexican
guerrilla fighter.

''I swear,'' Inge Colsen, the duo's publicist, says with a laugh, ''It's like
herding revolutionaries.''

For Ms. Tolokonnikova, 24, and Ms. Alekhina, 25, the most recognizable members
of the Russian feminist art collective Pussy Riot, being herded (or at times, it
seems, paraded) has become par for the course. The two have been on the road
since 6 a.m., traveling from Rikers Island -- nearly visible across the water --
to the high-art aficionados here on Randalls Island, where they were interviewed
on stage by David Remnick, The New Yorker editor.

It's been barely five months since the women were released from a Russian
prison, charged with ''hooliganism'' for staging an anti-Putin protest inside an
Orthodox church. Along with another member of the collective who was released
earlier, they served 16 months for the act, after a trial that some described as
a witch hunt. While in prison, Ms. Tolokonnikova was missing for a number of
weeks (she was later found at a Siberian hospital) and Ms. Alekhina has said she
had to endure forced gynecological exams.

Since then, they've formed a nonprofit, Zona Prava, which means Zone of Rights,
to bring attention to prison conditions and to advocate for inmates all over the
world. They've traveled to Singapore, Dublin, Paris, Amsterdam and Norway, and
have spoken before the European Parliament and United States lawmakers. They've
also become near-ubiquitous faces in the United States, fringe protesters turned
pop icons, complete with adoring fans.

In April, they were on a panel at Lincoln Center for Tina Brown's Women in the
World summit, in conversation with Charlie Rose about Russian prison reform.
They attended the black-tie gala for the PEN Awards, a fund-raiser for the
literary human-rights organization, underneath the giant blue whale at the
American Museum of Natural History (taking the stage after Toni Morrison and
Salman Rushdie). They appeared on stage with Madonna and recently met the cast
of ''House of Cards.''

At the White House Correspondents Dinner in Washington earlier this month, they
posed for step-and-repeat photos at the Vanity Fair party, prompting one
Ukraine-based journalist to joke on Twitter: ''Red carpeting their way to
Putin's ouster.''

You would think the women might want a break. And yet they won't get one today.
Frieze organizers had to go to extreme lengths to book them. The talk's
Berlin-based co-curator, Christy Lange, first reached out to an artist friend in
London, who had recently been to Moscow, where he met someone who knew the
husband of one of the women, who put him in touch with a journalist, who
provided an email that ultimately went to Pyotr Verzilov, Ms. Tolokonnikova's
husband and sometime translator. After a lengthy exchange, Mr. Verzilov
responded: ''We are thinking to confirm to this.'' Ms. Lange could only hope it
meant they really were confirming.

The women arrived as hoped, but late. They had come straight from Rikers Island,
where they had spent the day with Cecily McMillan, the 25-year-old activist
sentenced to 90 days in prison and five years' probation after being convicted
of assaulting a police officer at an Occupy Wall Street protest. They had been
running on three hours' sleep, but Ms. McMillan ''gave us this jolt of energy,''
Ms. Tolokonnikova said in an interview after the pair's appearance. On stage
with Mr. Remnick, the women's talk spanned Russian conceptualism, activism as
art as well as political censorship and prison conditions.

The contrast was not uncharacteristic of daily life in the face of their
newfound fame. In Russia, the women, who have young children, must travel with
bodyguards. They say their phones are being tapped. They have been attacked
while dining in public. And while Ms. Tolokonnikova and Ms. Alekhina maintain
that anyone can be a part of the collective, other members have proclaimed that
the women are no longer affiliated with the group.

And yet here, they are the unmistakable face of the Pussy Riot ''brand,'' if you
can call it that. Their trademark neon balaclavas were featured in the movie
''Spring Breakers''; their logo has been screen-printed on shirts and sold on
Amazon.

If the women wanted, they could most likely become rich from speaking gigs and
tours. They certainly have the fan base. But that is not their goal. ''What we
do is political art,'' Ms. Alekhina said.

They are reluctant even to take on the voice of cultural critics. In Los
Angeles, when chased down by TMZ for their opinions on a Hillary Rodham Clinton
presidency, their reply was curt: ''This question is not for us to answer.''
They responded similarly to The Wall Street Journal when asked if they approved
of Miley Cyrus, and to Mr. Remnick, when he asked about their feelings on United
States policy toward Russia.

''We get absolutely no kick out of status,'' Ms. Tolokonnikova said after her
talk at Frieze. She laughed and looked at Ms. Alekhina, who was plucking the
white pith off an orange. ''It's almost like a mental disorder that we have.''

Ms. Alekhina looked up. ''To be perfectly honest, we got much more inspiration
from Rikers,'' she said.



                              
 Spanish Upstart Party Said It Could, and Did. Now the Hard Part
Begins.

 

MADRID -- In the wake of Barack Obama's first presidential election, few slogans
became as popular, or arguably overused, as ''Yes, We Can.'' But since its
shattering electoral debut on Sunday, a three-month-old party that adapted the
slogan in Spanish -- Podemos -- might as well consider a name change, to We Did.

What it did was to shake the foundations of Spanish politics in the balloting
for the European Parliament on Sunday, denying the governing conservative
Popular Party and the opposition Socialists a majority of votes for the first
time since the country's return to democracy 35 years ago.

Now the challenge for Podemos -- anti-establishment, anti-austerity and heavily
youth- and Internet based -- is to show that it is more than a flash-in-the-pan
outlet for protest, avoiding a fate similar perhaps to Beppe Grillo of Italy,
who after months of rallying the angry and disaffected was soundly beaten by the
governing party in the same election.

Given the deep unpopularity of Spain's mainstream politicians, the endemic
corruption exposed by the financial crisis and the pain felt by the 26 percent
of the work force still unemployed despite hints of recovery, politicians and
analysts are taking the threat posed by Podemos seriously.

''The real surprise is not the success of Podemos, but the fact that it has
taken so long for any alternative party to tap into the disappointment and
frustration with the failure of the two traditional big parties to provide
answers to the problems of a lost generation,'' said Thomas Bernd Stehling, the
director for Spain and Portugal of the Konrad Adenauer Foundation, which is
based in Germany and has links to the administration of Chancellor Angela
Merkel.

Podemos was set up with limited funding and registered as a party only in March.
But on Sunday it still managed to win almost 8 percent of the Spanish vote,
gaining five seats in the European Parliament, the fourth-largest representation
from Spain.

The party and its media-savvy, pony-tailed leader, Pablo Iglesias, 35, did so by
rallying a significant portion of the youth-led movement that briefly took over
downtown Madrid three years ago and acted as a precursor to Occupy Wall Street,
but eventually fizzled after the Popular Party won an absolute majority in a
general election in late 2011.

Given his success in drawing back together at least parts of that fragmented
movement, Mr. Iglesias said in a phone interview that Sunday's vote was ''the
start and not the end'' for Podemos.

''We weren't born to be an anecdotal incident, but instead to govern and remove
the big parties that have shown they are part of the problem and not the
solution,'' he said. ''Their policies of making cuts and submitting to what the
European Central Bank and lenders want has been shown not to work here, nor in
Greece, nor anywhere else.''

He added: ''Europe's institutional structure has turned the south into a
periphery that provides cheap labor and serves the rich of the north. It is a
structure that condemns us to poverty and dependency.''

It was an analysis befitting a professor of political science, which he is, and
a former Communist Party youth member who was named after Pablo Iglesias, the
19th-century father of Spanish socialism.

But Mr. Iglesias, who has taught at Complutense University of Madrid since 2008,
has also striven to use his academic credentials to speak for the entire
anti-establishment electorate -- not only its left wing -- notably by becoming a
regular face on television talk shows, including conservative ones.

''I've always been from the left, but our problems cannot be explained in terms
of left-right ideology, but in terms of fighting the privileged that are abusing
the majority of citizens below them,'' Mr. Iglesias said.

For the fledgling party's supporters, that is part of its appeal. ''Podemos is a
left-wing party with its arms opened to everybody who has big hopes of change,''
said Juan Serrano-Alonso Villalobos, an airline pilot, who started following Mr.
Iglesias through his television appearances. He said he made a 100 euro (about
$136) donation to help set up the new party, responding to an Internet funding
appeal. Altogether, Podemos gathered about &#x20ac;130,000, or $176,000, to
finance its European Parliament campaign.

Even if the European elections carry little weight among Spaniards, Mr.
Serrano-Alonso Villalobos said he was convinced that Podemos ''can go very far
and will also force other parties to change their structures.'' Although he has
never met Mr. Iglesias, he described him as ''clean, honest and capable of
communicating simple and clear ideas in a country that has a real absence of
leadership.''

Before the vote, Podemos organized itself in about 400 so-called circles, or
assembly points, formed around either a neighborhood or a specific sector, like
a student association. Early studies of Sunday's returns showed that Podemos had
most support among voters 45 to 60. But in addition, a quarter of Podemos voters
were under 30. Podemos also had its strongest support in large cities, led by
Madrid, where it won 11 percent of the vote.

Mr. Iglesias said that if the party had had more time to prepare its campaign,
''our result would have been even better.''

The challenge will be putting together a real party agenda, however. For now,
the party's 36-page campaign program reads like a wish list, with little detail
about how it could be financed at a time when Spain is still struggling under a
heavy debt burden.

Among its economic demands, Podemos wants to prevent profitable companies from
firing people, introduce a 35-hour workweek, redistribute wages more fairly and
guarantee gender equality, as well as to abolish private hospitals to return to
a fully state-controlled health care system.

Mr. Iglesias said he also wants Spain to restructure its debt with international
lenders.

''This happened in exceptional circumstances in places like Russia, Ecuador and
Argentina, with good results for the citizens,'' he said.

Writing this week in the Spanish newspaper El Mundo, Jorge de Esteban, the
president of the publication's editorial board, argued that Mr. Iglesias
''managed to squeeze the most from his obvious oratory and photogenic skills,
with an image that reminds one of Errol Flynn as Robin Hood and with goals that
I presume are similar to this legendary character.''

Vicente Palacio, assistant director at Fundación Alternativas, a political think
tank, said that Podemos could have ''very beneficial effects in terms of
regenerating the Spanish democratic system.''

The risk, he said, is that the party's message ''gets handled badly and drifts
toward populism and demagogy, as has happened in the case of Beppe Grillo and
his Five Star Movement in Italy.''



                              
 What's On Tuesday

 

7 P.M. (SNY) MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL: NEW YORK METS VS. SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS After
receiving rave reviews for his first stint announcing from the SNY broadcast
booth, on June 23, 2010, Jerry Seinfeld, right, will once again call a game
alongside Keith Hernandez, Ron Darling and Gary Cohen. ''Four guys who love to
talk, sharing one broadcast booth, sounds like a bad idea on its face,'' Mr.
Seinfeld said in an SNY statement. ''I don't even know if the chairs will fit.
But to spend an evening with Keith, Ron and Gary, I will stand if I have to.''
Mr. Seinfeld will team up with Bob Ojeda, the lead studio analyst, and the host
Chris Carlin on ''Mets First Pitch,'' at 6.

7 A.M. (CBS) CBS THIS MORNING ''Eye-Opening Extremes,'' a weeklong segment,
looks at people who test their physical limits in pursuit of thrills and
acclaim, like the Olympic gold medalist Shaun White, a snowboarder.

8:50 A.M. (Encore) KRAMER VS. KRAMER (1979) In his first Oscar-winning role,
Dustin Hoffman portrays an advertising executive with a 6-year-old son (Justin
Henry, below with Mr. Hoffman) who gets a crash course in being a parent when
his wife (Meryl Streep, who won for best supporting actress) leaves him. ''
'Kramer vs. Kramer' is one of those rare American movies that never have to talk
importantly and self-consciously to let you know'' that they concern ''many more
things than are explicitly stated,'' Vincent Canby wrote in The New York Times
about this Oscar winner for best picture, directed by Robert Benton. ''It's
about fathers and sons, husbands and wives, and, most particularly, perhaps,
about the failed expectations of a certain breed of woman in this day and age.''

7 P.M. (13, 49) PBS NEWSHOUR ''Coping With Climate Change: Arctic Thaw,'' a
three-part series produced with the Pulitzer Center and The Seattle Times,
examines the consequences of melting ice caps. In this second episode,
scientists work to chart safe routes and potential hazards for surging marine
traffic as previously frozen waterways open.

8 P.M. (Pivot) 99%: THE OCCUPY WALL STREET COLLABORATIVE FILM (2013) Nearly 100
filmmakers contributed to this documentary snapshot of a gathering of idealists
in Lower Manhattan and the issues -- including college loan debt, the income gap
and the demands of subsistence employment on the working poor -- that gave birth
to a movement.

9 P.M. (USA) COVERT AFFAIRS In this summer finale, Annie (Piper Perabo) faces
off with Calder (Hill Harper) as she tries one last time to take down Henry
(Gregory Itzin). In ''Suits,'' a nemesis throws a wrench into the Pearson Darby
negotiations and pits Harvey (Gabriel Macht) against Scottie (Abigail Spencer).
Louis (Rick Hoffman) recruits a new hire, and Jessica (Gina Torres) keeps an eye
on Michael (Patrick J. Adams) and Rachel (Meghan Markle).

9 P.M. (Fox) NEW GIRL A third season begins as Jess (Zooey Deschanel, below) and
Nick (Jake Johnson) impulsively head to a Mexican beach town for a romantic
interlude. Schmidt (Max Greenfield) must choose between Cece (Hannah Simone) and
Elizabeth (Merritt Wever). And Winston (Lamorne Morris) is fixated on completing
a puzzle. In the Season 2 opener of ''The Mindy Project,'' at 9:30, an ailing
Mindy (Mindy Kaling) is rushed from Haiti back to New York, where she discovers
that Schulman & Associates has hired a new obstetrician and gynecologist (James
Franco) who also happens to be a model and sex therapist.

9 P.M. (Bravo) I DREAM OF NENE: THE WEDDING NeNe and Gregg Leakes -- whose
marriage ended before a spark reignited on ''The Real Housewives of Atlanta'' --
prepare to tie the knot again. In ''The New Atlanta,'' at 10, young
professionals struggle to achieve their business dreams while resolving old
heartaches.

9 P.M. (ABC Family) FAILURE TO LAUNCH (2006) In this throwback to 1930s
comedies, a 35-year-old bachelor (Matthew McConaughey), firmly planted in his
childhood home, is given an eviction notice in the guise of the perfect woman
(Sarah Jessica Parker), whom his parents (Kathy Bates and Terry Bradshaw) have
hired to persuade him to move out. Writing in The Times, Stephen Holden said the
film ''has some of the sass and bite of those oldies'' as the director Tom Dey
guides it ''through the screwball rapids.''

10 P.M. (13, 49) EGYPT IN CRISIS In this ''Frontline'' episode, the veteran
Middle East correspondents Martin Smith and Charles Sennott examine the Muslim
Brotherhood, which was ousted from power by the Egyptian military after only 12
months. KATHRYN SHATTUCK



                              
 Fight Over Energy Finds A New Front in a Corner of Idaho

 

LAPWAI, Idaho -- In this remote corner of the Northwest, most people think of
gas as something coming from a pump, not a well. But when it comes to energy,
remote isn't what it used to be.

The Nez Perce Indians, who have called these empty spaces and rushing rivers
home for thousands of years, were drawn into the national brawl over the future
of energy last month when they tried to stop a giant load of oil-processing
equipment from coming through their lands.

The setting was U.S. Highway 12, a winding, mostly two-lane ribbon of blacktop
that bisects the tribal homeland here in North Central Idaho.

That road, a hauling company said in getting a permit for transit last month
from the state, is essential for transporting enormous loads of oil-processing
equipment bound for the Canadian tar sands oil fields in Alberta.

When the hauler's giant load arrived one night in early August, more than 200
feet long and escorted by the police under glaring lights, the tribe tried to
halt the vehicle, with leaders and tribe members barricading the road, willingly
facing arrest. Tribal lawyers argued that the river corridor, much of it beyond
the reservation, was protected by federal law, and by old, rarely tested treaty
rights.

And so the Nez Perce, who famously befriended Lewis and Clark in 1805, and were
later chased across the West by the Army (''I will fight no more forever,''
Chief Joseph said in surrender, in 1877), were once again drawn into questions
with no neat answers: Where will energy come from, and who will be harmed or
helped by the industry that supplies it?

Tribal leaders, in defending their actions, linked their protest of the
shipments, known as megaload transports, to the fate of indigenous people
everywhere, to climate change and -- in terms that echo an Occupy Wall Street
manifesto -- to questions of economic power and powerlessness.

''The development of American corporate society has always been -- and it's true
throughout the world -- on the backs of those who are oppressed, repressed or
depressed,'' said Silas Whitman, the chairman of the tribal executive committee,
in an interview.

Mr. Whitman called a special meeting of the committee as the transport convoy
approached, and announced that he would obstruct it and face arrest. Every other
board member present, he and other tribe members said, immediately followed his
lead.

''We couldn't turn the cheek anymore,'' said Mr. Whitman, 72.

The dispute spilled into Federal District Court in Boise, where the Nez Perce,
working alongside an environmental group, Idaho Rivers United, carried the day.
Chief Judge B. Lynn Winmill, in a decision this month, halted further transports
until the tribe, working in consultation with the United States Forest Service,
could study their potential effect on the environment and the tribe's culture.

The pattern, energy and lands experts said, is clear even if the final outcome
here is not: What happens in oil country no longer stays in oil country.

''For the longest time in North America, you had very defined, specific areas
where you had oil and gas production,'' said Bobby McEnaney, a senior lands
analyst at the Natural Resources Defense Council. A band stretching up from the
Gulf of Mexico into the Rocky Mountains was about all there was.

But now, Mr. McEnaney said, the infrastructure of transport and industrial-scale
production, not to mention the development of hydraulic fracturing energy
recovery techniques, and the proposed Keystone XL pipeline from Canada, are
affecting more and more places.

The Nez Perce's stand, in a way, makes Mr. McEnaney's point. The tribe's fight,
and the galvanizing decision by its leaders to step in front of the transport,
drew in people who had not been involved before.

''Our history is conservative. You don't go to court, you don't fight,'' said
Julian Matthews, another tribe member. The fighting stance by tribal leadership,
he said, was partly driven by pressure from members like him, already pledged to
opposition.

Others described the board's decision as a thunderbolt. After the special
meeting where leaders agreed they would face arrest together, the news blazed
through social media on and off the reservation.

''Everybody knew it in an hour,'' said Angela Picard, who came during the four
nights of protest when the load was still on tribal lands, and was one of 28
tribe members arrested.

Pat Rathmann, a soft-spoken Unitarian Universalist church member in Moscow,
Idaho, heard the new tone coming from the reservation. A debate over
conservation and local environmental impact, she said, had suddenly become a
discussion about the future of the planet.

''The least I could do was drive 30 miles to stand at their side,'' said Ms.
Rathmann, whose church has declared climate change to be a moral issue, and
recently sponsored a benefit concert in Moscow to raise money for the tribal
defense fund.

The equipment manufacturer, a unit of General Electric, asked the judge last
week to reconsider his injunction, partly because of environmental impacts of
not delivering the loads. Millions of gallons of fresh water risk being wasted
if the large cargo -- water purification equipment that is used in oil
processing -- cannot be installed before winter, the company said.

''Although this case involves business interests, underlying this litigation are
also public interests surrounding the transportation of equipment produced in
the U.S. for utilization in wastewater recycling that benefits the
environment,'' the company said.

The risks to the Nez Perce are also significant in the months ahead. Staking a
legal case on treaty rights, though victorious so far in Judge Winmill's court,
means taking the chance, tribal leaders said, that a higher court, perhaps in
appeal of the judge's decision, will find those rights even more limited than
before.

But for tribe members like Paulette Smith, the summer nights of protest are
already being transformed by the power of tribe members feeling united around a
cause.

''It was magic,'' said Ms. Smith, 44, who was among those arrested. Her
3-year-old grandson was there with her -- too young to remember, she said, but
the many videos made that night to document the event will one day help him
understand.



                              
 Court Backs Owner of Site Occupied By Protesters

 

A federal judge has ruled that the real estate company that owns Zuccotti Park,
where Occupy Wall Street protesters encamped in 2011, cannot be sued by
protesters and journalists who were critical of the police's response to those
protests.

The court decision, which was issued on Thursday by Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald
of Federal District Court in Manhattan, is a setback for a group of plaintiffs
that included protesters, several members of the New York City Council and the
National Press Photographers Association.

Judge Buchwald found that because the New York Police Department was making the
decisions regarding when to make arrests or close off public areas during the
Occupy protests, the plaintiffs had no grounds for suing Brookfield Office
Properties, which owns Zuccotti Park.

Judge Buchwald also sided with other property owners that operated plazas or
atriums that were the site of Occupy protests. Most are so-called privately
owned public spaces, resulting from changes to the city zoning laws that offered
real estate developers concessions in return for such plazas.

Zuccotti Park, at Broadway and Liberty Street in Lower Manhattan, is typically
open to the public 24 hours a day.

During the Occupy protests in late 2011, protesters, curiosity-seekers and some
drifters hunkered down there.

One plaintiff, Councilman Ydanis Rodriguez, was arrested as he made his way
toward Zuccotti Park on the same night in November that the police cleared the
park in a raid, two months after the protests began.

The lawsuit claimed that the police ''arrested and assaulted reporters and
elected officials, including some of the plaintiffs herein, to prevent them from
covering or even observing the police action.''

The city and a number of police officials, who are still defendants in the case,
have denied violating the plaintiffs' constitutional rights.



                              
 Business Groups See Loss of Sway Over House G.O.P.

 

WASHINGTON -- As the government shutdown grinds toward a potential debt default,
some of the country's most influential business executives have come to a
conclusion all but unthinkable a few years ago: Their voices are carrying little
weight with the House majority that their millions of dollars in campaign
contributions helped build and sustain.

Their frustration has grown so intense in recent days that several trade
association officials warned in interviews on Wednesday that they were
considering helping wage primary campaigns against Republican lawmakers who had
worked to engineer the political standoff in Washington.

Such an effort would thrust Washington's traditionally cautious and pragmatic
business lobby into open warfare with the Tea Party faction, which has grown in
influence since the 2010 election and won a series of skirmishes with the
Republican establishment in the last two years.

''We are looking at ways to counter the rise of an ideological brand of
conservatism that, for lack of a better word, is more anti-establishment than it
has been in the past,'' said David French, the top lobbyist at the National
Retail Federation. ''We have come to the conclusion that sitting on the
sidelines is not good enough.''

Some warned that a default could spur a shift in the relationship between the
corporate world and the Republican Party. Long intertwined by mutual
self-interest on deregulation and lower taxes, the business lobby and
Republicans are diverging not only over the fiscal crisis, but on other major
issues like immigration reform, which was favored by business groups and party
leaders but stymied in the House by many of the same lawmakers now leading the
debt fight.

Joe Echevarria, the chief executive of Deloitte, the accounting and consulting
firm, said, ''I'm a Republican by definition and by registration, but the party
seems to have split into two factions.''

While both parties have extreme elements, he suggested, only in the G.O.P. did
the extreme element exercise real power. ''The extreme right has 90 seats in the
House,'' Mr. Echevarria said. ''Occupy Wall Street has no seats.''

Moreover, business leaders and trade groups said, the tools that have served
them in the past -- campaign contributions, large memberships across the
country, a multibillion-dollar lobbying apparatus -- do not seem to be working.

''There clearly are people in the Republican Party at the moment for whom the
business community and the interests of the business community -- the jobs and
members they represent -- don't seem to be their top priority,'' said Dan
Danner, the head of the National Federation of Independent Businesses, which
spearheaded opposition to President Obama's health care law among small
businesses. ''They don't really care what the N.F.I.B. thinks, and don't care
what the Chamber thinks, and probably don't care what the Business Roundtable
thinks.''

The lawmakers seem to agree. Representative Randy Neugebauer, Republican of
Texas and a Tea Party caucus member, said in an interview on Wednesday that if
American corporations wanted to send their money elsewhere, that was their
choice.

''We have got to quit worrying about the next election, and start worrying about
the country,'' said Mr. Neugebauer, who sits on the House Financial Services
Committee and is a recipient of significant donations from Wall Street.

Few of the most conservative House lawmakers draw substantial support from
business political action committees, and business lobbyists acknowledged that
the mere suggestion they were considering backing primary challenges next year
could enhance grass-roots support for the very lawmakers they want to defeat.
But the dysfunction in Washington has now turned so extreme, they said, that
they had few other options.

''What we want is a conservative business person, but someone who in many
respects will be more realistic, in our opinion,'' said Bruce Josten, the top
lobbyist at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the single biggest lobbying
organization in Washington.

In the two previous battles over the debt limit, many chief executives were
reluctant to take sides, banding together in groups like Fix the Debt, which
spent millions of dollars on a campaign urging Democrats and Republicans to work
toward a ''grand bargain'' on the budget. But with shutdown a reality, and the
clock ticking toward default, some of those same executives now place the blame
squarely on conservative Republicans in the House.

''It's clearly this faction within the Republican Party that's causing the issue
right now,'' said David M. Cote, the chief executive of Honeywell and a steering
board member of Fix the Debt.

The rift, these industry executives acknowledge, reflects longstanding tensions
that sometimes emerge between the agendas of corporate executives and those
embraced by the conservative wing of the Republican Party.

''We ask them to carry our water all the time,'' said one corporate sector
lobbyist, who demanded anonymity in order to speak frankly about the
relationship with Republicans. ''But we don't necessarily support them 100
percent of the time. And what has happened is the rise of an ideological wing
that is now willing to stand up to business interests.''

Despite their diminished leverage, business leaders said they would step up
their appeals for an agreement.

Most of the officials said they agree in principle with conservative lawmakers
about the need to cut federal spending or roll back parts of Obamacare, but said
using the threat of shutdown -- or worse, of a debt default -- to extract those
concessions was both ineffective and dangerous.

Mr. Josten said he had been on Capitol Hill every day this week counseling
compromise.

''The name calling, blame gaming -- using slurs like jihadist, terrorist,
cowards, that kind of language -- it does not get you to a deal,'' Mr. Josten
said of the advice he is giving to Democrats and Republicans. ''The problem is
everybody is in the same corner here and everybody has to try to save some
face.''

To some extent, the Chamber itself, along with other lobbying groups, helped
create the conditions for Washington's impasse.

After the 2010 elections, the Chamber and other business interests funneled
millions of dollars into Republican redistricting efforts around the country,
helping draw overwhelmingly safe Republican districts whose occupants -- many
among the most conservative House members -- are now far less vulnerable to
challenges from more moderate Republicans.

The Chamber spent more than $32 million on the 2012 election, nearly all of it
backing Republicans. Similarly, the American Banking Association sent 80 percent
of its $2.6 million in political action committee donations to Republicans in
the last election cycle, compared with 58 percent in 2008, according to data
compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics, out of dissatisfaction with
Democratic efforts to impose more financial regulations.

Now the group's president, Frank Keating, a former Republican governor from
Oklahoma, is among those lamenting Congress's failure to achieve a deal to avert
default. On Thursday, he will testify before the Senate banking committee that
''ordinary Americans will bear the brunt of the damage if our leaders do not
prevent the United States from defaulting on its debt for the first time in
history,'' according to an advance copy of his remarks.

To break through to lawmakers, some national trade groups are deploying local
business owners, who they believe may have more clout with conservatives than
big-name chief executive officers. The National Retail Federation has already
begun such efforts in states like Oklahoma and Kentucky, where the Republican
Party dominates.

A spokeswoman for the National Association of Manufacturers, Erin Streeter, said
the group had decided to sponsor a fund-raising event for Representative Mike
Simpson, Republican of Idaho, who is among the 20 House Republicans who have
said they will support a budget bill -- or at least a temporary measure to
reopen the government -- without removing funds from the health care program.
Mr. Simpson is facing a primary challenge from a more conservative, Tea
Party-backed Republican.

''We need to be more aggressive,'' Ms. Streeter said.

Michael J. Driscoll, a former managing director of Bear, Stearns & Co. and
lifelong Republican from New York, said he would not be surprised if Wall Street
executives began to shift some of the giving away from House lawmakers.

''One thing about Wall Street, it is very aware of who is working in their best
interest,'' he said.

But other lobbyists cautioned that while individual Republican lawmakers may
lose financial support, the business community was unlikely to turn its back on
the party over all and that donations would continue to flow to campaign
committees set up by Republican leaders in the House, including from Wall
Street.

''The reason the business community is overwhelmingly pro-Republican is because
of the policy positions generally held by the Democratic Party,'' said Dirk Van
Dongen, president of the National Association of Wholesalers-Distributors. ''But
there's a lot of talk around town about the need for Republicans to get into
primaries and protect people who are being attacked because they are only 96
percent pure.''

''I, for one, think that would be a healthy exercise,'' he added.



                              
 Charges Upgraded Against Detective in Bikers' Attack

 

Prosecutors on Wednesday upgraded the charges against an undercover New York
City police detective, saying he terrorized a family when he punched and kicked
their sport utility vehicle as a group of motorcyclists he was with assaulted
the driver after chasing the vehicle down.

The involvement of the detective, Wojciech Braszczok (pronounced VOY-chek
BROOSH-chahk), who is 32, heightened the drama around the Sept. 29 attack.
Detective Braszczok was initially charged with riot and criminal mischief when
he was arrested on Tuesday, but at his arraignment on Wednesday at Manhattan
Criminal Court, prosecutors said his actions warranted harsher charges. They
added charges of gang assault and assault, and dropped the riot charge.

He was suspended from the police without pay upon his arrest.

Judge Tamiko Amaker barred photography after the defendant's lawyer said
publishing his image ''could jeopardize his life.''

''My client has been undercover working in the intelligence division of the
N.Y.P.D., infiltrating various organizations that law enforcement had
targeted,'' the lawyer, John Arlia, said.

After the hearing, Detective Braszczok, dressed in a black hooded sweatshirt and
camouflage shorts, departed, his face covered.

Photographs that appear to be of Mr. Braszczok emerged on an account under his
name on the photo-sharing site Photobucket. Some photos show Detective Braszczok
in what appear to be nightclubs, and others show him shirtless and sporting
geometric designs shaved into his head.

After viewing the photos on Wednesday, several activists from the Occupy Wall
Street movement identified Detective Braszczok as a man they knew as Al, a
fixture at Zuccotti Park during the protests there. They said they suspected he
was monitoring the movement undercover.

At the arraignment on Wednesday, the prosecutor, Samantha Turino, described the
detective as ''an active participant'' in the attack.

While Detective Braszczok does not appear to have been involved in the assault
on the driver, Alexian Lien, 33, he aided in the attack by continuing ''to
terrorize the rest of the driver's family,'' Ms. Turino said. Mr. Lien's wife,
Rosalyn Ng, and their 2-year-old daughter were passengers in the S.U.V.

In a video of the assault viewed by the authorities, but not made public,
Detective Braszczok, who was off duty and wearing motorcycle gloves, is seen
breaking the rear window of Mr. Lien's Range Rover with his fist while it was
blocked by traffic on West 178th Street, Ms. Turino said. He is then seen
kicking the passenger side door.

At the time, he was wearing a vest with ''Front Line Soldiers'' and ''New
Rochelle, NY'' on the back. The video contradicted what officials had said were
Detective Braszczok's initial statements, that he had been with the group of
motorcyclists until the assault began and then left. It took several days for
the detective to come forward after the attack.

Mr. Arlia said that his client was more than 12 feet from Mr. Lien during the
assault and never came into contact with him. He did not dispute that Detective
Braszczok punched and kicked the car, but said that the back window was already
broken.

He said the detective, who has a wife and two children, ''valiantly served'' the
police.

Mr. Braszczok was released on $150,000 bond. Another biker, Clint Caldwell, 32,
was also arraigned on Wednesday on gang assault and assault charges.

So far seven motorcyclists have been arrested. The latest, arrested on
Wednesday, was identified as James Kuehne, 31, of Brooklyn. He was charged with
gang assault, criminal mischief and criminal possession of a weapon.



                              
 Wooing 'Hometown Industry,' De Blasio Meets Wary Wall St.

 

It was an unadvertised stop on Bill de Blasio's schedule. In a corporate
boardroom high above Midtown Manhattan, the populist insurgent and sudden
mayoral front-runner was courting an unlikely constituency: New York City's
plutocratic class.

Facing a bespoke-suited audience of moguls and financiers rattled by his
anticorporate rhetoric and eagerness to siphon off more of their wealth, Mr. de
Blasio, a left-leaning Democrat, tried to reassure them that he was not plotting
to go to war with them.

''Wall Street is our hometown industry,'' Mr. de Blasio told the group,
according to several attendees at the lunch last week in the glassy headquarters
of Viacom near Times Square. Mr. de Blasio, who is the city's public advocate,
told them that he knew his campaign oratory had earned him few friends in the
room, but that he was plainly aware that the city's economy hinged on the health
of businesses like theirs.

The executives, who included Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman
Sachs; bankers from Blackstone and other private-equity firms; and Rupert
Murdoch, the media magnate, told friends later that Mr. de Blasio's remarks were
somewhat reassuring. But the lunch did not erase all their worries.

Wilbur L. Ross, a billionaire and a buyout specialist, later pronounced himself
unmoved -- and anxious that Mr. de Blasio's liberal worldview could imperil the
gains made by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, the gleaming cityscape, cleaner
streets and innovative urban initiatives.

Mr. de Blasio could ''undo all of the progress made in reducing crime,'' Mr.
Ross wrote in an e-mail after the Oct. 3 meeting.

Taking issue with the candidate's views on education as well as public safety,
Mr. Ross wrote: ''My hope is that since he is so intelligent, he will revise his
thinking on both topics before too much damage is done.''

Few factions of New York City have been stung by Mr. de Blasio's rapid rise more
than the financial elite, who are grieving the imminent departure of a mayor
sprung from their own ranks. Mr. Bloomberg, a billionaire, has comforted
beleaguered bankers when the public has turned on them -- in one case,
conspicuously sharing a burger with Mr. Blankfein -- and blended seamlessly into
their social circuit of ballroom galas and golf retreats.

In private gatherings, they are pressing Mr. de Blasio about his vision and how
he intends to pay for it. Their concerns are not only about his attitude toward
the affluent; they have used the safer, cleaner New York as a selling point to
compete for talent with financial hubs like London or Greenwich, Conn.

Aware that he will never replace Mr. Bloomberg in their hearts, Mr. de Blasio is
engaged in a delicate courtship, determined to portray himself as progressive
but reasonable and pragmatic about business. Aides say Mr. de Blasio understands
that his ambitious plans for housing and education could be undercut by a revolt
in the financial sector, which generates a significant portion of city revenues.

''Bill wants to be a great mayor,'' said Sean Coffey, a corporate litigator who
recently represented Fabrice Tourre, a former Goldman Sachs trader, in a case
brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission. ''To do that, he knows he
can't be at war with Wall Street.''

There are more immediate benefits as well. Mr. de Blasio, who scarcely appears
in public these days, has been holding closed-door fund-raisers at a breakneck
pace, collecting hundreds of thousands of dollars in campaign contributions from
the same bankers and Wall Street lawyers whose excesses he has frequently
bemoaned.

In the last two weeks, Mr. de Blasio met with donors in lavish homes on Park
Avenue and off Gramercy Park and at a breakfast in the Yale Club with a few
dozen A-list financiers, a gathering that raised more than $50,000 in an hour. A
reception at the white-shoe law firm Gibson Dunn is planned for later in the
month.

And on Oct. 21, former Secretary of State Hillary Rodman Clinton and a
collection of executives from the worlds of real estate and finance, including
Meyer S. Frucher, the vice chairman of Nasdaq, will gather at the Roosevelt
Hotel for the most expensive event yet.

Mrs. Clinton is inviting donors to bundle $25,000 for a private reception, and
$10,000 if they wish to pose for a photograph with her and Mr. de Blasio. Those
sums are unheard-of in city campaign fund-raising, where the most an individual
can contribute is $4,950.

For Wall Street traders, Mr. de Blasio, who led his Republican opponent, Joseph
J. Lhota, by more than 40 percentage points in recent polls, looks like a sure
bet. But not long ago, he was viewed as an unelectable liberal, who repulsed
many bankers by proposing higher taxes on the wealthy and offering a pep talk at
the Occupy Wall Street encampment, praising the protesters for ''speaking to
what people are feeling all over this country.''

''From their perspective, Bill has emerged out of nowhere, and they need to get
to know him,'' said Michael Schlein, a former top executive at Citigroup who has
been making introductions for Mr. de Blasio on Wall Street.

Mr. de Blasio is not a complete stranger to the financial world. His wife,
Chirlane McCray, briefly worked under Mr. Schlein at Citigroup, and after the
financial crisis Mr. de Blasio opposed limits on bank bonuses.

He seeks counsel from Orin S. Kramer, a hedge fund manager and a top donor to
President Obama, who introduced him at the Viacom lunch. Another ally is William
Mulrow, who is a senior managing director at Blackstone and a former candidate
for state comptroller (and who once donned dingy clothes to impersonate an
Occupy Wall Street protester at a private bankers' dinner).

Still, Mr. de Blasio's interactions with the capitalist class can sometimes be
awkward. At the Yale Club breakfast last week, one guest bluntly asked Mr. de
Blasio why his rhetoric had been so harsh on the wealthy.

''If I'm being edgy about this, it's because it's edgy out there,'' Mr. de
Blasio replied, according to an attendee. Perplexing some of the guests, Mr. de
Blasio told the bankers that they might better understand his perspective if
they were to tour the city and hear the same desperate stories he had
encountered on the campaign trail.

The next day, at the Viacom lunch, Mr. de Blasio was given a rousing
introduction by Mr. Kramer, who said the candidate fully understood that his
mayoralty would hinge on having a thriving, contented corporate class.

But when it was Mr. de Blasio's turn to speak, the Democrat simply said he
concurred with Mr. Kramer's remarks. Some executives left the meeting wondering
why Mr. de Blasio had declined to repeat those pledges in his own words.

''He still comes off with that edge,'' said one person who attended the Yale
Club event, and requested anonymity to avoid offending the candidate. ''He's
going to have to find ways to speak differently to industries and the business
community.''

Mr. de Blasio has been open with executives about his views, volunteering his
support for the Dodd-Frank regulatory reforms and defending his proposed tax on
New Yorkers earning more than $500,000 a year. (Under the plan, which would
affect about 51,000 households, an unmarried banker with taxable income of
$800,000 would owe an additional $1,500 a year in taxes.)

Asked about labor, Mr. de Blasio told one group that municipal unions deserved
new contracts, but that the city might not have the resources to provide full
retroactive raises. He pointed out that few of the major public unions had
endorsed him in the primary, suggesting he was not tethered to their demands.

Bankers who have sat with Mr. de Blasio say they are impressed by his
intelligence and willingness to listen, even if some of his core values clash
with their own.

Always eager for a positive spin, some Wall Street executives are looking on the
bright side: It could have been worse.

''Wall Street would have been really upset if Eliot Spitzer had gotten in,''
said one senior executive, referring to the former governor's failed comeback
run for city comptroller.

The executive, who was not authorized to speak publicly, laughed and said, ''I
think at least they can live with de Blasio.''



                              
 Sometimes, It Pays to Break the Rules

 

Dr. Sari Jaclyn Burns and Harry Charles Waisbren were married Saturday in
Brooklyn. Rabbi David B. Cohen officiated at the Liberty Warehouse, an events
space.

Dr. Waisbren, 30, is a fellow in addiction psychiatry at Beth Israel Medical
Center in Manhattan. She graduated from Emory University and received a medical
degree from the State University of New York Downstate College of Medicine in
Brooklyn.

She is a daughter of Rachelle Burns and Dr. Paul Burns of New City, N.Y. The
bride's father, an anesthesiologist, is a partner in Ramapo Anesthesiologists in
Suffern, N.Y. Her mother is a clinical social worker at Volunteer Counseling
Services, a social services agency, and also has a private practice in
psychotherapy and counseling, both in New City.

Mr. Waisbren, 28, is a founder of SuperVoters.org, an aggregation of online
videos that is a project of Democrats.com, a Web site for progressives. He
graduated from the University of Wisconsin at Madison. He was also a contributor
to ''From Cairo to Wall Street: Voices From the Global Spring'' and recounted
his involvement in the 2011 protests in Madison, and Occupy Wall Street.

He is a son of Laura B. Waisbren and Dr. Charles J. Waisbren of Fox Point, Wis.
The groom's father is an internist in Wauwatosa, Wis.

Mr. Waisbren, a Milwaukee native, had been in New York only a couple of months
when the couple met in December 2010. It was, he says, his inexperience with the
ordinariness of the unusual in this city that set the stage for their first
conversation, in a bar on the Lower East Side. When Mr. Waisbren walked in to
meet a friend, he saw Dr. Burns checking out that friend's heart with her
stethoscope.

''That was something that was so out of the ordinary that I had to go ask what
was going on,'' he said. ''In Milwaukee, it's such a different environment.''

The two began talking and he eventually asked for her number.

''He actually did call me the next day and I was shocked because who actually
calls the next day?'' she said.

Before their first date, he got another lesson in dating customs in New York.
She called him from the restaurant when he hadn't shown up; he was awaiting her
call at his apartment.

''I had it in mind that you meet by the subway and walk together to the
restaurant,'' he said. ''I was aghast at myself.''

A few weeks later, she told him that she'd be working an overnight shift at the
hospital for the coming weeks and wouldn't be able to see him. But his unique
take on dating served him well.

''I said: 'Well, that's not true. I could walk you to and from work,''' he said.
And so he did.

''It was a big thing,'' she said, ''of him saying, 'It's not going to be O.K.
I'm not going to NOT see you.'' NINA REYES



                              
 Corrections

 

An article in some editions on Oct. 21 about the closing of criminal cases
associated with the arrests of Occupy Wall Street demonstrators at the Brooklyn
Bridge misstated the professional credentials of a protester, Jonathan
Stribling-Uss. He has a law degree, but he is not a lawyer.



                              
 A Surprise Ally for the Rich

 

Every month, Leonard Steinberg, a leading broker at Douglas Elliman who has been
responsible for more than $2 billion in residential real estate transactions,
largely in downtown Manhattan, publishes something called The Luxury Letter. The
report combines various listings -- for $9 million duplexes in Chelsea, for a
$44.9 million ''loft mansion'' in TriBeCa -- with Mr. Steinberg's insights on
the high-end property market and the city more generally. Titled ''Mayoral
Issues: A Tale of Two Cities?'' the October editor's note recommended that the
city's presumptive next leader, Bill de Blasio, devise a ''worst tenants'' list,
and cautioned those who criticize Michael R. Bloomberg that a mayor's role is to
be ''effective C.E.O. of the city, not 'best friend.' ''

A champion of the Teterboro class, a man we imagine having greeted Occupy Wall
Street with a call for Rigaud candles and fumigation, Mr. Steinberg late last
month was surprised to be attending a fund-raiser for Mr. de Blasio. The impetus
was a call from the real estate impresario Steve Witkoff, developer of the
luxury West Village condominium complex 150 Charles, which has a $35 million
penthouse and which Douglas Elliman represents. Mr. Witkoff was holding an event
for Mr. de Blasio in his Upper East Side home. ''I thought if he's met Bill de
Blasio and formed a personal impression, I want to know more,'' Mr. Steinberg
told me. After spending some time with the candidate, he was moved to make a
donation.

In their conversation, Mr. Steinberg shared a long-held obsession with Mr. de
Blasio -- the seemingly arbitrary way tax assessments are determined, leaving
some property owners to grossly overpay and some to underpay. ''I said, 'If you
are the mayor of fairness, you have to do something about this,' '' Mr.
Steinberg recounted. ''And he said, 'Leonard, I'm definitely going to look into
this.' He gave me a credible look in the eye, an
I'm-going-to-do-something-about-this look, not a political BS look.''

The exchange reflects Mr. de Blasio's potentially dubious gift for ecumenical
connection. The idea that a de Blasio administration would alienate the wealthy,
that the wealthy would revolt against relatively slight tax increases and move
to Miami, that they would endure any significant marginalization in the
narrative of the city, seems to be losing its currency. Mr. de Blasio has
reached out to the real estate community; there have been several industry
fund-raisers for him. It could hardly be otherwise. ''People talk about Wall
Street, but even before '07, '08, it was really real estate that was the A.T.M.
of New York,'' Steven Spinola, president of a powerful lobbying group, the Real
Estate Board of New York, told me.

Over the past fiscal year, city revenue from taxes on income-producing property
was greater than revenue from sales and income taxes combined. Real
estate-related taxes (including property, commercial rent, mortgage recording,
transfer and hotel occupancy taxes) totaled $22.6 billion, roughly a third of
the city's total budget. ''This is one reason I believe things will go well,''
Mr. Spinola told me. ''We have an interest in seeing that he'' -- Mr. de Blasio
-- ''is successful, and if we are successful, Mayor de Blasio will be able to
fund the things he wants to fund.''

If the economy sustains itself, it is hard to imagine the enormously wealthy
suffering a diminished role in the psyche of the city in the coming years. In
March, Knight Frank, a London-based real-estate consulting firm, issued a report
forecasting that the number of H.N.W.I.'s (high-net-worth individuals, or those
with over $30 million in assets, as the jargon goes) would increase by 36
percent in New York by 2022. Other cities are expected to experience a higher
percentage increase, but New York is predicted to have more of these individuals
than any other city in the world. Compared with several of those global
capitals, ultraluxury real estate in New York -- at an average of $4,100 a
square foot -- is relatively inexpensive. In Hong Kong it is $11,000 a square
foot.

There are certainly those in the real estate industry who worry about the impact
of higher taxes, even though studies repeatedly show that people are unlikely to
move when taxes go up. (Last year, in fact, the British ''stamp duty'' increased
to 7 percent from 5 percent on property transactions over a certain amount, and
buying in England did not slow.) And yet even those who harbor concern mostly
refuse to buy into the meme that a progressive city government would inevitably
result in a New York of crack dens and subway muggings. ''No sane person
believes we are turning the clock back to the Dinkins days,'' Fred Peters,
president of Warburg Realty, said.

As it happens, it was the implication of such a regression, in Joseph J. Lhota's
notorious campaign ad last month, that has left many in the real estate world
aghast. At the fund-raiser Mr. Steinberg attended, he said: ''There were many
heavy hitters in the room, many of them Republican. And people were outraged. It
was the sort of ad a group of kids might fall for, but not educated adults.''
The sentiment was very much, ''What idiot came up with that?''

Email: bigcity@nytimes.com



                              
 Gauging Degree of City's Left Turn

 

New York City voters stepped decisively to the political left on Tuesday,
turning their collective back on two decades of Republican-backed mayoral rule.

Bill de Blasio, a professorial and insistently liberal politician who came of
age in the left-leaning politics of the 1980s, is the Democratic mayor in
waiting, and a symbol of these politics.

He talked repeatedly of a gilded world capital rived by class divisions and
inequality, where the children of the middle and working class struggle to find
jobs and apartments.

His vows to tax the rich in service of universal prekindergarten and to rein in
police stop-and-frisk tactics that inflamed young black and Latino men became
twin pillars of his campaign. Such talk worried some business leaders, who had
grown accustomed to attentive treatment from Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.

But in a post-Occupy Wall Street world, the mayor-elect's message resonated with
voters.

''I keep telling my members that the Bloomberg era was an aberration,'' said
Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City, a leading
business group. ''Bill captured the disconnect for many New Yorkers between the
fact of the city's prosperity and the reality of their lives in this
increasingly unaffordable city.''

Just how far Democrats can lean left is a matter forever debated; even as some
national Democrats criticize President Obama as having strayed from his core
tenets, others guard against wandering too far left, for fear of toppling into
an electoral abyss. But for this city's liberals, the chance is to make policy
on the grandest urban stage in America is exhilarating.

''To be the left wing of the possible is a great opportunity,'' noted Dan Cantor
of the Working Families Party, a labor-backed coalition that has taken the role
of the left-wing mouse that roared in city politics.

New York's veer to the left extends well beyond the mayor's office. Christine C.
Quinn, the departing City Council speaker, lost badly in the Democratic primary
for mayor. Her reputation was that of a centrist, all too willing to mediate
disputes and align herself with the mayor. Her successor will probably not share
those traits: Unabashed liberals with full policy agendas will vie to replace
Ms. Quinn.

The elected public advocate, Letitia James, a forceful liberal, has spoken
emphatically for people seen as marginalized.

Even Scott M. Stringer, elected to the post of comptroller, that green-eyeshaded
steward of bonds and finances, hails from the Democrats' liberal flank.

The municipal labor unions, often with a new generation of leaders, put muscle
to electoral oar. Mr. Bloomberg, the billionaire mayor, often cut deals and
divided labor. Those divisions ended this year.

Councilman Donovan Richards Jr. is an example of this new ruling coalition. He
hails from Southeast Queens, a black, home-owning, union-label province battered
by storms meteorological and economic. Home prices have resumed an upward climb
in upper-class Manhattan and the brownstone belt, but deflationary prices and
foreclosures plague his constituents. ''Those at the bottom need to know they
can find opportunity,'' he said. ''We want to assure them that we will hear
their cries a lot more.''

Such talk worries conservatives, who write of a ''full-tilt boogie'' pursuit of
liberal policies. Mr. de Blasio's Republican opponent, Joseph J. Lhota, warned
that Mr. de Blasio's New York would tumble backward into the ''Escape From New
York'' days of the 1980s and early 1990s.

Their bill of worries is a long one: New City Council laws installing an
inspector general and tightening the regulation of stop-and-frisk tactics could
push the Police Department into a defensive crouch. Higher taxes could chill the
financiers, and tougher zoning laws could anger real estate developers.
Emboldened labor unions might extract billions of dollars in contract
settlements.

The Daily News, which is center-right, published an endorsement of Mr. de Blasio
that read like a dirge. ''Big doses of reality will soon force de Blasio to act
on tough issues that he smiled past in the campaign and to revise ill-considered
stances,'' The News wrote.

The electoral victors do not dismiss worries out of hand.

If they can prove their managerial bona fides, they can carve room to pursue
progressive policies. Fumble a blizzard, ladle out too-generous labor
settlements, and they threaten the foundation of their liberal project.

''As mayor, you have to run stuff and deliver services, and it doesn't matter
what your politics are,'' said Michael P. Jacobson, a former city correction
commissioner and budget analyst, and a contributor to a collection of
progressive prescriptions for New York. ''To actually run a government is hugely
constraining.''

This election was in part a regression to a historic mean. The city's DNA is
encoded Democratic; registered Democrats greatly outnumber Republicans. And
Republican candidates run strongly in times of crisis.

Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Bloomberg's predecessor, spoke to this: ''I told this
to Joe when he decided to run: 'Republicans win in New York City when the people
feel something is really wrong and we need to do something drastic.' ''

Mayor Bloomberg was a different political bird altogether. A moderate Democrat,
he switched party loyalties in 2001 to avoid a primary. Even then, it took a
terror attack, a Giuliani endorsement and tens of millions of dollars of his
personal fortune to win.

His tenure defied simple labels. He mixed reflexive pro-business sympathies and
controversial school policies with liberal and innovative polices on housing,
health, the streetscape, parks and global warming.

Yet there was an inescapable sense Tuesday night that a majority of voters had
chosen to ford an electoral Rubicon. The de Blasio message, that a glistening
New York must offer more for all, echoed often.

Mario Agustin, a retired teacher stopped outside his polling place, off Coney
Island Avenue in Brooklyn, said that he was the son of liberal Republicans and
that Mr. Bloomberg's mayoralty had not troubled him.

But he wanted change.

''De Blasio speaks to something else, a new vision,'' he said. ''Too many of us
in New York live in a bubble.''

For decades, the City Council formed a culturally and fiscally conservative
bulwark against the effusions of liberal mayors. It too has grown markedly
liberal. This is because of assiduous organizing by the Working Families Party
and to the reality of New York: From the hills of the central Bronx to the
immigrant-rich flats of Queens and the lower middle-class neighborhoods of
Staten Island, the incomes are static and the benefits few. City Council
legislation to mandate five sick days for New Yorkers proved popular.

Mr. de Blasio himself remains a bit of a mystery, even in victory. He worked for
two exemplars of centrist liberalism, as an operative for the current governor,
Andrew M. Cuomo, when Mr. Cuomo was the secretary of housing and urban
development, and as a campaign manager for Hillary Rodham Clinton.

But he found his message, of inequality and a government that might soften
capitalism's hard edges, and he drove it with skill. Now he must govern in a
parlous time. Every municipal contract has expired. Democrats rule the executive
chambers in Washington and in Albany, but purses are latched shut.

He warned of that reality. ''We have no illusion about the task that lies
ahead,'' he said on election night, adding that ''the problems we set out to
address will not be solved overnight.''

In the end, this election was as much about a cultural inflection point as about
a single man and his policies. As Robert Master, a union leader active in the
campaign put it, the zeitgeist tracked down Bill de Blasio.



                              
 Lou Reed's New York Was Hell Or Heaven

 

He wrote about hustlers, drag queens and speed freaks, and about the ordinary
dreamers, misfits and down-and-outers who populated the hotels and nighttime
streets of New York City -- native-born New Yorkers like himself, and all the
lost or marginal seekers who came to the city to become somebody else or take a
walk on the wild side. Pearly Mae, who ''can't tell the night from the day'';
Jackie, who thought ''she was James Dean for a day''; the small kid standing by
the Lincoln Tunnel, ''selling plastic roses for a buck''; the ''druggy downtown
kids who spray-paint walls and trains.''

Lou Reed's New York was a tough place. It was a place of ''dark party bars'' and
neon lights, a ''funny place/Something like a circus or a sewer,'' despite the
''new buildings/Square, tall and the same'' -- a place as distinctive as
Chandler's Los Angeles or Baudelaire's Paris. He wrote about New York with a mix
of journalistic observation and deeply felt emotion, a poet's tenderness and a
bad boy's street cred, creating a soundtrack to the city that resonates decades
after Times Square has been hosed down and scrubbed clean, and the Village and
SoHo and TriBeCa have been transformed from grungy bohemian haunts into
destination stops on luxury real estate search engines.

(A public event, ''New York: Lou Reed at Lincoln Center,'' is scheduled for
Thursday afternoon at the Paul Milstein Pool and Terrace at Lincoln Center, near
where Reed and his wife, the musician and performance artist Laurie Anderson,
joined Occupy Wall Street protesters some two years ago.)

For some of Mr. Reed's older fans, his portraits of New York are like old
black-and-white snapshots (or the monochrome covers of old New Directions
paperbacks), summoning memories of a time when they were young and defiant and
searching for some elusive something. For generations of younger fans, too, his
gritty view of life on the edge and his primal, uncompromising music remain an
inspiration. He was ''an early calling card to New York and how to be an
artist,'' Thurston Moore of Sonic Youth told Rolling Stone magazine. ''He was
like the Empire State Building to me.''

Mr. Reed was a pioneer on rock's frontier with the avant-garde, translating
lessons he learned at Andy Warhol's Factory, and the disruptive innovations of
the Beat writers -- Allen Ginsberg, William S. Burroughs and Hubert Selby Jr.
(''Last Exit to Brooklyn'') -- to the realm of popular music. He not only
embraced their adversarial stance toward society and transgressive subject
matter (in songs like ''Street Hassle'' and ''Heroin'') but also developed his
own version of their raw, vernacular language, while adding a physical third
dimension with guitars and drums. His early songs for the Velvet Underground --
delivered in his intimate, conversational sing-speak -- still sound so
astonishingly inventive and new that it's hard to remember they were written
nearly half a century ago.

If Mr. Reed provided a literary bridge to the Beats (and through them, back to
the Modernists, and the French ''decadents'' Rimbaud and Verlaine, and even Poe,
the subject of his 2003 project ''The Raven''), he also created a bridge forward
to punk and to glam, indie, new wave and noise rock. He would become a formative
influence on musicians like Talking Heads, Patti Smith, Roxy Music, R.E.M., the
Sex Pistols, Sonic Youth, the Strokes, Pixies, and Antony and the Johnsons. As
his friend the artist Clifford Ross observed, ''Lou was the great transmitter''
-- of ideas, language and innovation.

What gave Mr. Reed such a broad artistic wingspan was the extraordinary
emotional and sonic range of his work: his access to both the sunlit and darkly
shadowed parts of his psyche, his magpie's love of so many genres of music and
his willful determination to continually experiment. His music from album to
album (sometimes from track to track) often seemed deliberately to subvert
expectations. His 1972 album, ''Transformer'' -- which mixed rough street
reportage with playful, trippy musings in classics like ''Walk on the Wild
Side,'' ''Perfect Day'' and ''Satellite of Love'' -- was followed by his dark,
ambitious song cycle ''Berlin,'' and a few years later by the deliberately
difficult ''Metal Machine Music'' (1975), a howling hour-plus-long barrage of
feedback and electronic noise.

''It's not that he didn't care what people thought,'' his longtime producer and
collaborator Hal Willner said last week. ''He cared. But it wasn't going to
change what he did.''

Though Mr. Reed was famous for his aggression, for the intensity of songs like
''White Light/White Heat'' or the snarling perversity of ''Sister Ray,'' he was
equally the master of hauntingly beautiful ballads like the deceptively simple
''Pale Blue Eyes'' or ''Oh! Sweet Nothing,'' a moving hymn to the lost and
dispossessed. His work tended to move between polarities: between anger and
vulnerability, angst and empathy, sarcasm and yearning; between screaming guitar
riffs and pretty doo-wop harmonies; between dissonance and melody; between
belligerent head-fakes and earnest soul-searching.

At the same time, Mr. Reed found a way to use the dynamic between words and
music, pairing, say, lyrical melodies with corrosive tales about violence,
suicide and drug use; swirling, ecstatic guitars with minimalist lyrics. In
performance, his inflection and delivery added to the contradictions,
underscoring both his own chameleon moods and the beauty and pain that make up
what he called ''the vertigo of life.''

Over the years, Mr. Reed's work seemed to grow more directly autobiographical.
Albums like ''The Bells'' (1979), ''The Blue Mask'' (1982) and ''Set the
Twilight Reeling'' (1996) delved into many of the same subjects (the weight of
family history, questions of identity, the transience and intractability of
time) that had animated the poems and stories of his teacher Delmore Schwartz --
whom he regarded as a formative mentor -- and that pointed up these very
different artists' emotional affinities.

In a 1987 interview, Mr. Reed talked about seeing his record albums as chapters
in one huge, long novel: ''They're all in chronological order,'' he said. ''You
take the whole thing, stack it and listen to it in order, there's my Great
American Novel.'' ''Pass Thru Fire,'' the recent volume of Reed's collected
lyrics -- dedicated to ''L.A.,'' Laurie Anderson -- provides another version of
that novel, and even without the essential soundtrack, the lyrics possess a
remarkable organic coherence, charting a harrowing journey through the bohemian
underworlds of New York City, through the ravages of heroin and speed, and
emotional terror, fury and aloneness -- and toward something like grace.

Whether it's Candy who hates ''the big decisions/That cause endless revisions in
my mind'' or the lost souls in ''All Through the Night'' yearning ''for a bell
to ring'' when ''the daytime descends in a nighttime of hell,'' the people in
his songs are all searching for something -- a dream, a fix, someone to hold --
that might see them through the midnight hour.

In the volume's final song, written in 2008 and clearly addressed to Ms.
Anderson, Reed wrote about finding a balm for the negativity that had once
hobbled him -- his propensity to think about the past instead of ''what could
be,'' the rain instead of the sun.

The magic ability of love to help us transcend loss and self-doubt is the
fulfillment of a wistful hope, sketched decades ago, in one of his early and
loveliest songs, ''I'll Be Your Mirror'':

''I'll be your mirror, reflect what you areIn case you don't knowI'll be the
wind, the rain, and the sunsetThe light on your doorTo show that you're home.''



                              
 Inspector Who Used Pepper Spray Must Testify

 

The police commander whose pepper spraying of several women sparked sharp
criticism of the New York Police Department's response to the Occupy Wall Street
protests has been ordered to appear before investigators and account for his
actions, a state judge has ruled.

The effect of the ruling is to reopen the disciplinary case against Deputy
Inspector Anthony Bologna more than two years after the pepper-spraying episode.
The matter had appeared closed after the district attorney's office in Manhattan
decided against criminal charges and the Police Department concluded its
internal inquiry by docking Inspector Bologna 10 vacation days.

But in a decision issued Friday, Justice Joan B. Lobis of State Supreme Court
ordered that Inspector Bologna submit to an interview by the Civilian Complaint
Review Board, an independent city agency that investigates police misconduct.

Inspector Bologna appeared before the review board in August but declined to
answer any questions. Police officers are typically required to submit to
interviews by the civilian complaint board. But Inspector Bologna's position was
that an 18-month time limit for initiating disciplinary proceedings against
civil servants had already passed.

Justice Lobis rejected that argument, and the decision represents a significant
victory for the review board's investigative powers. Justice Lobis ruled that
the case falls under an exception for investigations involving possible crimes.

The delay in the review board's case was partly because of its decision to put
off its investigation while the district attorney's office conducted its
inquiry.

At issue are Inspector Bologna's actions on Sept. 24, 2011, when he sprayed
several women who were penned in. The episode was captured on video and spread
widely on the Internet and became a critical moment in the protests.

The review board's power to discipline officers is limited. It can prosecute
officers in the Police Department's internal administrative courtrooms, but any
punishments imposed there can be changed by the police commissioner.

''Inspector Bologna acted that day consistent with his training and with no
malice,'' Deputy Inspector Roy Richter, the head of the union that represents
senior uniformed officers, said. ''He put himself on the line to do his job and
his job was maintaining order in the City of New York.''

Inspector Richter said that for the civilian complaint board to wait so long
''evokes an inherent feeling of unfairness in the process.''

''At what point do you say that this case has already been looked at,''
Inspector Richter said, noting that Inspector Bologna had been sued numerous
times over the pepper-spray episode.

Daniel Chu, the review board's chairman, said the board would be scheduling
Inspector Bologna for an interview ''as soon as possible.''



                              
 In Thailand, Standing Up for Less Democracy

 

BANGKOK -- In a world now accustomed to democratic upheavals, including the Arab
Spring and the Saffron and Orange Revolutions, the weeks of political upheaval
in Thailand stand out for one main peculiarity. Protesters massing on the
streets here are demanding less democracy, not more.

From their stage beneath the Democracy Monument, a Bangkok landmark, protesters
cheer their campaign to replace Parliament with a ''people's council'' in which
members are selected from various professions rather than elected by voters.

The embattled prime minister, Yingluck Shinawatra, has proposed new elections as
a solution to the turmoil. But that is just what the protesters do not want.

''I am one of the people who will not allow this election to take place,''
Suthep Thaugsuban, the main protest leader, told a group of business executives
in Bangkok on Thursday. Continued protests ''might hurt businesses,'' he said,
''but just in the short term.''

In today's fractured Thailand, a majority wants more democracy, but a minority,
including many rich and powerful people, is petrified by the thought of it.

Because a number of the protest leaders are members of Thailand's wealthiest
families, some have described the demonstrations here as the antithesis of the
Occupy Wall Street movement. This is the 1 percent rebelling against the 99
percent, they say.

The reality is more complicated -- the protesters include rich and poor, Bangkok
residents and many people from southern Thailand who feel disenfranchised by the
current government and its northern power base. What unites the protesters is
the desire to dismantle Ms. Yingluck's Pheu Thai Party, which has won every
election since 2001.

That Thailand is being convulsed by an antidemocracy movement is somewhat
surprising. The country was one of the earliest in Asia to adopt democracy, and
both women and men were allowed to vote in local elections in 1897, more than
two decades before the 19th Amendment in the United States banned voting rights
discrimination on the basis of sex.

The antidemocracy protests, which have been some of the largest in Thai history,
call into question the commonly held belief that a rising tide of wealth in a
society will naturally be followed by greater demands for democracy. Thailand
today is much richer than it was two decades ago, but it is also much more
divided.

To outsiders, and many Thais, some of the protesters' rhetoric seems to come
from a different era.

''I can't believe we are now arguing about suffrage. Is this 2013 or 1913?''
wrote a Thai Twitter user who goes by the handle Kaewmala.

The antidemocratic ideas put forward by protest leaders are a jarring contrast
with the image of Thailand as a cosmopolitan country open to the world.

At the Democracy Monument, in Bangkok's historic district, tens of thousands of
protesters gather nightly to speak of their skepticism of the notion of one
person, one vote. A block over on Khao San Road, a street legendary with
generations of Western travelers, backpackers watch English Premier League
soccer, drink beer and enjoy $7 foot massages.

On the face of it, the crux of the protest appears to be a classic power
struggle between a dominant majority and a minority frustrated by its losing
streak in elections and its inability to influence national policies in a
winner-takes-all, highly centralized system.

But Thailand's crisis is multifaceted and tightly intertwined with the fact that
King Bhumibol Adulyadej, the country's 86-year-old monarch, who during more than
six decades on the throne has been revered to the point of quasi-religious
devotion, is ailing and that the country is bracing for his death.

A crucial component of protesters' grievances is a feeling that the king and the
monarchy have been undermined and threatened by the popularity of Ms. Yingluck's
elder brother, Thaksin Shinawatra, the former prime minister and patriarch of
the Shinawatra clan, Thailand's most powerful political family.

''This is a war between Thaksin and the king,'' said a 64-year-old corn farmer
from central Thailand who gave her name only as Muai and was among the thousands
of protesters in the streets on Thursday. ''Thaksin has been insulting the king
for far too long.''

Mr. Thaksin has never publicly spoken ill of the king, but many of his
supporters have been convicted by the authorities for lèse-majesté, a law that
has been aggressively used in recent years to clamp down on dissent toward the
monarchy.

Mr. Thaksin was removed in a 2006 military coup, an event that helped give him
the aura of a martyr and allowed his supporters to overlook the controversial
aspects of his rule, including numerous allegations of large-scale corruption
and a war against drugs that left more than 2,800 people dead within three
months.

Verapat Pariyawong, a Harvard-trained lawyer and commentator, says the powerful
bureaucracy and courtiers around the king fear that new elites, symbolized by
the rise of Mr. Thaksin, will replace them.

The Crown Property Bureau is by far the largest landowner in Bangkok and has
controlling stakes in some of the biggest companies in the country. The managers
of this fortune are among those ''acting behind the scenes,'' Mr. Verapat said.

More broadly, Somsak Jeamteerasakul, a leading Thai scholar on the monarchy,
argues that Thailand's protracted political turmoil has been exacerbated by the
contrast between a deified king and politicians who appear crass and venal in
contrast. ''We have an image of monarchy that is flawlessly excellent in
everything,'' he said in 2010. ''If we had not built this image in the first
place, we would not have so many problems and complaints with politicians.''

Respect for the king, and the notion of his near-infallibility and beneficence,
are deeply ingrained in Thais from the earliest years of schooling.

Some speakers at the protests in recent days have labeled the abandonment of the
absolute monarchy in 1932 a mistake; protest leaders have called for the king to
appoint a prime minister.

Anuchyd Sapanphong, a Thai soap opera star, recently posted on his Facebook page
that he disliked corrupt politicians so much he wished he had been born during
the time of the absolute monarchy.

''I don't think we are suited for democracy right now,'' he said on his page.
''We don't understand it that well -- including me.''



                              
 Not Afraid to Take On Inequality

 

In fall 2011, when tents and tarps covered Zuccotti Park in Lower Manhattan, the
same heated debates about inequality and economic fairness that animated the
Occupy Wall Street protests were playing out in the New York City Council.

Christine C. Quinn, the Council speaker, was stalling on a bill to make
companies receiving city subsidies pay more than the minimum wage. Melissa
Mark-Viverito, a fiery liberal who had taken part in the protests, was
impatient. At a rally the night before a hearing on the bill, she electrified
supporters with assurances that their efforts would prove unstoppable.

''Tomorrow, we will occupy City Hall!'' she said.

Two years later, Ms. Mark-Viverito is Mayor-elect Bill de Blasio's choice to
replace Ms. Quinn as speaker, the city's second most powerful elected official,
and she has trumpeted the support of 30 of the 51 council members -- more than
enough to give her the job when a vote is held on Jan. 8.

While another candidate, Daniel Garodnick of Manhattan, is fighting on, Ms.
Mark-Viverito and her allies insist that her campaign for speaker is already
won.

In Ms. Mark-Viverito, 44, the new mayor will get a legislative partner whose
outspokenness against inequality matches, if it does not sometimes exceed, his
own. She has shown a taste for direct action, whether conducting teach-ins to
encourage activism in her neighborhood or flying off to her native Puerto Rico
to protest antigay bias crimes.

She is deeply concerned about Latinos getting their due: In college, she pressed
administrators to hire more Latino professors. And she is unafraid of an uphill
battle: When she felt her councilman was neglecting East Harlem's Hispanic
residents, she took him on herself.

In the last few years, Ms. Mark-Viverito has been at the head of a group of
lawmakers who challenged Ms. Quinn from the left on issues including paid sick
leave and police reform.

At the same time, she has been somewhat polarizing. Reserved, she has struck
some as arrogant, while occasionally antagonizing people in her district with
sharp words. She has pledged to run the Council more democratically than Ms.
Quinn. But, given Mr. de Blasio's role in her ascension, it remains to be seen
how she would handle confrontations between the Council and the new mayor.

Melissa Mark Viverito (she added the hyphen as an adult) was born on April 1,
1969, in Bayamón, P.R., to Anthony Mark, an ophthalmologist, and Elizabeth
Viverito, who founded an early Puerto Rican feminist group. In an interview, her
mother said she raised Melissa and her two brothers to mistrust convention. She
posted a reminder in the family's kitchen that what they were taught in school
was only ''an amalgam of current prejudice.''

''We just believed everyone was equal, and we raised the children to be that
way,'' she said.

Arriving at Columbia University in 1987, Ms. Mark-Viverito gravitated toward
other Hispanics. She was a host of ''Caribe Latino,'' a radio show featuring
Latin jazz and interviews. To her shock, she heard people express racism about
Puerto Ricans.

''I heard about being 'parasites,' because all of our people are on public
assistance, or somebody saying that we should get on our boats and go home,''
she recalled. She said she became determined to speak out: ''I can't be silent
around these kinds of injustices and misinformed perspectives that people have
about me or about my people.''

After college, she worked in a mentorship program for young Latinos and went to
work for 1199, the health care workers union, deciphering the byzantine
economics of the home health care industry.

''She unraveled the payment system and revealed to us the huge profits being
made,'' said Kevin Finnegan, the union's political director.

Ms. Mark-Viverito was also becoming politically active in East Harlem. Seeing
Phil Reed, the area's councilman, as overly concerned with the West Side, she
challenged him and lost. When he was forced out by term limits in 2005, she ran
again and won.

In the Council, she became known for her advocacy on gay rights, immigration and
labor. Like Mr. de Blasio, she pushed for affordable housing but was praised by
city officials for her pragmatism.

She could also leave fellow lawmakers cold.

Matthew Wambua, a former city housing commissioner, said she was not a
glad-hander, which sometimes cost her points with colleagues. ''She's somebody
who sticks to her values and looks to achieve ends, but is not willing to sell
on her values, kiss babies and make back-room deals simply for the sake of
achieving leadership posts,'' he said.

Others on the Council said they had urged Ms. Mark-Viverito to show a lighter
side. But she suggested there was some sexism to the questioning of her people
skills.

''I will continue to be collaborative, and that's my inclination,'' she said.
''But I'm also someone who is not afraid to be strong and firm, and I think that
when it comes to women expressing those traits, it somehow is seen a little bit
differently and maybe a little bit more critically.''

It may take some time for council members, and New Yorkers, to get to know Ms.
Mark-Viverito in full.

In 2008, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg set her up on a date with his Spanish tutor.
She agreed, and the two went on a couple of dates.

Asked about this little-known example of the mayor's playing matchmaker, Ms.
Mark-Viverito all but groaned in distress.

''My private life is very private, my family is very private,'' she said. ''But
my professional life is very public, and I'm fine with that, and taking public
positions and being much more vocal and out there.''

''There's two sides to me,'' she added. ''It's complicated.''



                              
 Paid Notice: Deaths VOZICK, MICHAEL "MIKE"

 

VOZICK--Michael "Mike", 77, on December 21st, 2013, the Winter Solstice. Beloved
brother to Bettina, Alexandra, and David, brother in-law to Paul Levinson,
Michele Vozick, and Paul Hans.

Cherished uncle to Molly and Simon Vozick-Levinson; Ben Isaac, Marc, and Zachary
Thacher; Jesse, Julie, and Eric Vozick. Adored son of the late Ida and Hyman
Vozick. An irreplaceable presence in the lives of countless friends and an
invaluable teacher and colleague to many in the CUNY system and beyond. A
tireless activist in pursuit of justice and equality for all oppressed people; a
revolutionary thinker and eternal believer in the power of collective thought
and action; a scientist, poet and deep spirit in touch with the Earth. From his
historic work as a founder of San Francisco State's Experimental College in the
1960s to his devoted advocacy for adjunct professors' rights in recent years,
Mike spent his life making a difference. He never stopped believing that a
better world was possible, whether he was being arrested in the "Desegregate
Route 40" Freedom Rides, protesting the Vietnam War, cheering on Occupy Wall
Street, or sporting his signature "WAGE PEACE" button on the streets of New
York. He leaves behind an unforgettable legacy of love, light, and humor and the
inspiration of a mind that was thinking, questioning, confronting, and imagining
to his very last day. Rising Turtle, supporting the Earth; Earth, supporting
Rising Turtle. Rise on, Mike. A celebration of Mike's life will be held at noon
on Thursday, December 26, 2013, at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, Amsterdam
Avenue and 91st Street.



                              
 'Common Spaces'

 

The Kitchen

512 West 19th Street, Chelsea

Through June 14

Being conceptually oriented and activist-minded, the annual exhibitions
organized by the curatorial fellows of the Whitney Museum of American Art's
Independent Studies Program are anomalies these days, and, for that reason,
automatically of interest. This year's show, ''Common Spaces,'' has a timely
theme and several good artists. Not everything works, but enough does to make
you want to hang around and figure out what's going on.

The title refers to terrain that should be public property but isn't, unless
political action is taken to make it so. A well-known local example, Zuccotti
Park in Lower Manhattan, once turf for Occupy Wall Street, isn't directly
referred to, but a prototype is in documentary photographs of street protests in
Seattle during the 1999 World Trade Organization conference, taken by the great
Allan Sekula (1951-2013).

Other space-claiming moves are quieter. Bani Abidi shoots images of non-Muslim
Pakistanis living their lives in the streets of Karachi, empty and quiet during
Ramadan. In a video, Klara Lidén marks New York City as personal territory by
moonwalking through it all night.

History can be a form of territorial reclamation. The Italian artist team
Bianco-Valente (Giovanna Bianco and Pino Valente) cover the Kitchen's walls with
what look like abstract webs of Sol LeWitt-style drawn lines. But seen up close,
the lines turn out to be handwritten transcriptions of interviews the artists
recorded with Chelsea residents who lived in the neighborhood before
art-industry-inspired gentrification, and still consider it home.

The show has a utopian side. It's there in Mary Mattingly's video about an
ecologically self-sustaining urban houseboat, and in a film by Ayreen Anastas
and Rene Gabri about generously proprietary spirits-of-place in nature.

But the general view is more tempered. Sreshta Rit Premnat's mirrored protest
plaques could either reflect social realities or serve as standards for a
culture of narcissism. Natalie Bookchin explores YouTube as a digital commons,
primarily as a forum for exposing economic inequalities. Amy Balkin bought a
patch of Tehachapi, Calif., to create a permanent international commons.

And a text-and-performance piece by Huong Ngo and Hong-An Truong poses a simple
question: What space does an unwelcome immigrant occupy? Space in between,
forever.



                              
 To Answer Disasters, Mayor Picks Calm Hand

 

Filling one of the last vacancies in key positions in his administration, Mayor
Bill de Blasio on Friday appointed Joseph J. Esposito, who retired last year as
the New York City Police Department's highest-ranking uniformed member, as
commissioner of the Office of Emergency Management.

The pick catapults Mr. Esposito, an avuncular figure known for urging calm and
restraint in tense circumstances, into the highest-profile job of his career,
leading the agency responsible for overseeing the city's response to disasters,
both natural and man-made.

''He has been a legend for a long time in the N.Y.P.D.,'' Mr. de Blasio said at
a news conference on the lawn at Gracie Mansion, citing Mr. Esposito's 12 years
as chief of the Police Department, effectively its No. 2 official after the
commissioner.

Leading the city's emergency response efforts, Mr. de Blasio said, requires an
elaborate coordination of agencies and personnel sprawled across the municipal
bureaucracy.

''It's in his nature,'' the mayor said, ''to help people figure out how to get
on the same page.''

Mr. Esposito, 64, joined the Police Department in 1968 after high school and
retired last year when he reached the force's mandatory retirement age.

He had been deeply involved in leading the department's response to Hurricane
Sandy and the Sept. 11 attacks, as well as emotionally charged events like the
Republican National Convention in 2004.

''He was almost always a calming influence in circumstances that were
difficult,'' said Christopher Dunn, the associate legal director of the New York
Civil Liberties Union, who watched firsthand as Mr. Esposito defused a
confrontation between the police and protesters outside the convention.

Mr. Esposito also helped lead the police response to the Occupy Wall Street
demonstrations, although he was criticized after a video emerged that showed him
jabbing protesters with a baton.

Mr. Dunn said that, for the most part, Mr. Esposito had been ''a voice of
restraint'' during the protests.

Mr. Esposito succeeds Joseph F. Bruno, 70, who resigned this month after serving
as the city's emergency management chief since 2004. Mr. Bruno was one of
several holdovers from the previous administration who were asked to stay on
while Mr. de Blasio hunted for their successors.

Mr. de Blasio's appointment process has moved much more slowly than those of
past mayors; after six months, for instance, he has yet to name a commissioner
of the Buildings Department.

The mayor has explained the unhurried pace by saying he would rather wait to
find proper candidates than rush to simply fill positions.

In a sign of how highly Mr. Esposito is regarded, his appointment received rave
reviews on Twitter from two figures not known for praising Mr. de Blasio: former
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who worked with Mr. Esposito through the entirety of
his administration, and Joseph J. Lhota, Mr. de Blasio's Republican opponent in
last year's election, who called Mr. Esposito an ''exceptional choice'' to lead
the emergency management agency.

After the mayor's remarks on Friday, Mr. Esposito came to the microphone and
offered thanks. ''If it wasn't for God's hand on me, I wouldn't be standing here
today,'' he said, before turning to Mr. de Blasio and saying, ''A close second
to God is the mayor.''

Added Mr. Esposito: ''I know where my bread is buttered.''



                              
 New York Today: Wet Weather Ahead

 

 Good morning on this steamy Wednesday.

Pull up a seat: It's the Fourth of July vs. Tropical Storm Arthur.

A patch of bad weather is headed this way. Hence the question: Should you
proceed with your holiday weekend plans?

It depends.

First off, do not go camping Thursday, or attempt much of anything else.

There will be downpours, and thunder and lightning, on and off. The rain will
total maybe an inch and a half.

Friday is more complicated.

The chance of rain drops below 50-50 by noon in the city, earlier to the north
and west.

On Long Island, showers will linger longer.

The possibility of rain in the city remains even at grill-lighting time in the
early evening.

Any leftover precipitation should stop entirely by the time the fireworks pop.

From there on, you're in the clear, said Jim Connolly of the National Weather
Service.

"It looks high and dry, anywhere from as early as Friday right through the
weekend," he said.

"Big area of high pressure over us. Nice weather."

(And today? Sticky, with a high of 88 and a chance of a shower.)

Here's what else you need to know.

COMING UP TODAY

Cecily McMillan, the Occupy Wall Street protester convicted of assaulting a
police officer, speaks following her release from Rikers. 1 p.m.

Rite of summer: City officials remind residents about heat stroke outside the
Office of Emergency Management headquarters in Brooklyn. 1:30 p.m.

Opening day for a Ray Johnson exhibition, featuring early designs and
illustrations the artist mailed to MoMA. [$25]

The authors Emily Gould and Emma Straub read at Bryant Park from novels about
"romance, travel and friendship." 12:30 p.m. [Free]

A Bazooka-candy-fueled party featuring the brand's Mexican wrestling mascot
Señor Sour at Dylan's Candy Bar in Manhattan. 3 p.m.

Zombies meet at Coney Island's Freak Bar and eventually crawl to MCU Park ... 3
p.m. [Free] ...

... To watch the Brooklyn Cyclones play the Hudson Valley Renegades. 7 p.m.
[$10]

A documentary about Pussy Riot screens at sunset at Socrates Sculpture Park in
Queens. [Free]

Bailout Theater, a restaurant-sourced potluck dinner followed by dance
performances, is at Judson Memorial Church on Washington Square Park. 7 p.m.
[Free]

The NYC Bridge Runners Club meets in SoHo for their inaugural weekly Wednesday
night run. 7 p.m. [Free]

Yankees host Rays, 1:05 p.m. (YES). Mets at Braves, 7:10 p.m. (SNY).

For more events, see The New York Times Arts & Entertainment guide.

COMMUTE

Subway  and  PATH

L.I.R.R., Metro-North, N.J. Transit, Amtrak

Roads: Check traffic map or radio report on the 1s or the 8s.

Alternate-side parking: in effect till July 4.

Air travel: La Guardia, J.F.K., Newark.

IN THE NEWS

The State Senate's highest-ranking Republican was charged with lying to the
F.B.I. [New York Times]

Thousands traveled to a Queens cemetery to pay tribute to Rabbi Menachem Mendel
Schneerson, one of the most influential Jewish leaders of the 20th century.
"This is our World Cup," said one pilgrim. [New York Times]

An interactive tour of the city's "shadow transit," the dollar vans that
crisscross the city where the M.T.A. does not. [New Yorker]

During a protest in Queens, residents at a homeless shelter were accosted and
told to "get a job." [DNAinfo]

Public school classrooms are getting more crowded in the city, a study found.
[New York Times]

Rep. Charles Rangel owes the city $105,000 for illegal campaign sign placement
during the primary. [Daily News]

Lou Reed's estate may be worth more than $20 million. [Associated Press]

The Port Authority inspector general died of a heart attack. [New York Post]

A bear cub got its head stuck in a cookie jar in New Jersey. [CBS]

Kenneth Rosen contributed reporting.

New York Today is a weekday roundup that stays live from 6 a.m. till late
morning. You can receive it via email.

What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at
nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday.

Follow the New York Today columnists, Annie Correal and Andy Newman, on Twitter.

You can always find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.



                              
 HSBC Downgrades Outlook for Hong Kong Stocks

 

HONG KONG - HSBC, the London-based bank with roots in Hong Kong and Shanghai,
waded into controversy this week when it downgraded Hong Kong stocks out of
concern that a swelling pro-democracy movement in the former British colony
could sour relations with the mainland.

Without context, the two-sentence remark about Hong Kong, on Page 23 of an
84-page quarterly outlook on global equities sent out by the bank on Monday,
would most likely have gone unnoticed. After all, so many voluminous reports,
such as the World Bank's, often  around the world.

"We reduce Hong Kong to underweight on concerns about negative news flow,"
HSBC's global head of equity strategy, Garry Evans, and strategist Daniel
Grosvenor wrote in the report. " 'Occupy Central,' a campaign for greater
democracy, could sour relations with China and may hurt the economy.''

But the context mattered. The remark set off a slew of criticism and ridicule on
social media because it was the latest in a series of moves by Hong Kong's
business elite to castigate the pro-democracy movement, which is seeking to have
Hong Kong's top leader, the chief executive, elected in a way that meets
international norms for free and fair elections.

Typical was this:

The irony is that it's hard to go underweight Hong Kong without selling HSBC,
the biggest HSI index component. Cf: http://t.co/uqOpRVSuOF

- Gregor Stuart Hunter (@gregorhunter) July 8, 2014

The organizers of the movement - its full name is Occupy Central with Love and
Peace - plan to disrupt the city's central business district with sit-in
protesters if Hong Kong's government and the national legislature in Beijing put
together a plan for universal suffrage that effectively excludes candidates seen
as not desirable by China.

While the Occupy Wall Street movement in the United States focused on widening
income inequalities and fed off perceptions that the American political system
was rigged to benefit the financial class, the Occupy Central movement in Hong
Kong is focused on bringing democracy to the Chinese territory and encompasses a
wide range of mainstream Hong Kong society, including former top civil servants,
lawmakers, university professors, pastors and student groups.

Last month, The New York Times reported that HSBC and the city's other leading
British bank, Standard Chartered, had pulled advertisements from one of the
city's most widely read newspapers,  Apple Daily, on orders from Beijing's
liaison office in Hong Kong. The report cited Mark Simon, an executive for Apple
Daily's parent company, Next Media. The banks said they made advertising
decisions based on commercial reasons.

That was followed by  published on June 27 in Hong Kong newspapers by the Big
Four accounting firms - PricewaterhouseCoopers, KPMG, Deloitte and Ernst & Young
- who warned that the Occupy Central protest would bring "instability and chaos"
to the markets and that multinational corporations and investors might move
their businesses out of the city as a result.

Yet instead of instability, the first sit-in protest, which took place on the
evening of July 1 and into the morning of July 2, was followed by a stock market
rally in Hong Kong.

Hundreds of thousands of protesters - organizers said 510,000 - took to the
streets on July 1, the 17th anniversary of the handover of Hong Kong from
Britain to China. Hundreds of those people then sat down on one of central Hong
Kong's busiest thoroughfares. Police carried many away, arresting hundreds, as
dawn came, ending a peaceful protest and an orderly police action to clear the
streets for the morning rush hour.

On July 2 the city's benchmark Hang Seng index rose 1.55 percent, its biggest
percentage gain since May 12. It was a good day for stocks around the world, but
elsewhere gains were far more modest. In New York, the Dow Jones industrial
average rose 0.12 percent and in Tokyo the Topix rose 0.37 percent.

In contrast to Hong Kong, HSBC upgraded Chinese stocks, saying an economic
recovery made valuations "look attractive." China's CSI 300 rose 0.29 percent on
July 2. The index has fallen 6.4 percent so far this year as concerns have
mounted about China's property market.

Later on Monday, the bank amended the report to "clarify it better," said an
HSBC spokesman, Jerome Tam. The amended report adds some more reasons why HSBC
downgraded Hong Kong stocks.

"We reduce Hong Kong to underweight on the risk of weak residential real estate
prices, the slowdown in mainland tourist arrivals, the market's link to U.S.
interest rates (the Fed could raise rates next year) and weak earnings momentum.
We also note recent concerns about negative news flow regarding the 'Occupy
Central' campaign," the bank said in its amended report. The changes were not
made "because of all the news," Mr. Tam said. It was just "something internal."

David M. Webb, a corporate governance advocate in Hong Kong, said HSBC was
"entitled to its point of view" and said he would be surprised if the report
didn't reflect the true opinion of its authors.  But the Occupy Central
movement, if it is successful and leads to true democracy in Hong Kong, would be
beneficial to Hong Kong because the chief executive would have a mandate to
govern, and vital laws aimed at bolstering Hong Kong's development could pass
the city's Legislature, where logjams have tied up many important measures, Mr.
Webb said.

"Then Hong Kong will be more governable and more prosperous," Mr. Webb said by
telephone.



                              
 Ship's Reclassification Could Leave Floating Theater Group Without
Venue

 

OSSINING, N.Y. -- Among all the weekend pleasure crafts docked at Westerly
Marina in Ossining on the Hudson River, one vessel easily stood out.

It was the Amara Zee, a flat-bottomed boat modeled on a Thames River sailing
barge, and it houses the Caravan Stage Company, a group of more than 20 young
performers who live in a tight but cozy space below deck. Sailing from town to
town, the nautical theater company delivers waterfront productions of
experimental opera that might be described as Cirque du Soleil meets Occupy Wall
Street.

Shows feature outlandish props, circus acrobatics and aerialists dangling from
the ship's rigging. The opera themes are critical of the rich, governments and
global corporations. Its heroes are hackers promoting the distribution of wealth
and who are persecuted by paranoid and over-controlling authorities.

Now members of the Canada-based theater company say they feel as if they have
been thrust into one of their own plot lines, clashing with Canadian authorities
over the status of the Amara Zee, which is registered in Canada.

Federal transportation officials there have reclassified the ship, which now
threatens the very future of the company, said Paul Kirby, 70, the Amara Zee's
captain and artistic director of the troupe, which is scheduled to perform in
Red Hook, Brooklyn, next month.

Since its launch in 1997, the Amara Zee has been designated a pleasure ship,
which allowed for less-stringent regulations. But recently, the Canadian
authorities notified the troupe that the vessel could no longer be classified as
a pleasure craft. Mr. Kirby said the change would result in expenses the company
cannot afford, including hiring a crew of professional mariners, meeting
stricter and costlier regulations, and restricting travel routes.

The company, Mr. Kirby said, is a nonprofit that operates on a shoestring budget
of less than $100,000 a year, and the reclassification would ''leave us
literally dead in the water.''

On Tuesday, officials with Transport Canada, a government agency, said that the
Amara Zee's owners were notified that their status would change in 2012 because
of the Canada Shipping Act of 2001.

''The safety of the vessel, and of its crew and passengers, as well as the
protection of the environment, is paramount,'' a spokeswoman, Roxane Marchand,
said in an email, adding that the department's ''top priority is ensuring a
safe, secure and environmentally sound transportation system.''

From the beginning, the company has used the boat to sail from the Great Lakes,
along the Eastern Seaboard and in the Gulf of Mexico. The Amara Zee was also
transported across the Atlantic for a nine-year tour of European ports; the boat
is not equipped to handle the high seas of a trans-Atlantic crossing.

The vessel was brought back to the United States last year, and its tour this
summer along the East Coast has also had its share of controversy.

In Portsmouth, Va., town officials booked the troupe as a fun show after a
Fourth of July fireworks display. But many spectators walked out after seeing
the display of dark themes and provocative political messages. The city canceled
the two other performances it reserved.

Even at Westerly Marina, some attendees at a show last Saturday night walked out
minutes into the performance, but officials from the Village of Ossining, which
sponsored the show, supported the troupe.

''There will be some people who are upset by the show, but one of the things
theater does is make you uncomfortable,'' said William R. Hanauer, the mayor of
Ossining and a former theater producer.

The company was founded in 1970 in Canada by Mr. Kirby and his business partner,
Adriana Kelder, the group's designer and producer, as a troupe that traveled
from town to town in wagons pulled by Clydesdale horses, giving performances in
a large tent.

In 1993, Mr. Kirby and Ms. Kelder, both Canadian, built the Amara Zee over four
years, with financing and help from hundreds of sponsors, Mr. Kirby said.

It was initially classified as a cargo vessel, but after an intense legal
battle, Canadian transport officials ruled in 1997 that it could operate as a
pleasure craft.

But in a letter dated June 13, Transport Canada officials informed the troupe
that the 1997 decision had expired in 2012 and that ''we have determined through
a thorough review of the vessel's file that the vessel is not being used as a
pleasure craft.''

The agency wrote that under the new status the ship would have to be inspected
and recertified, and crew members would also need new certification.

Mr. Kirby said he felt disappointed by the decision, adding that the Canadian
flag is always flown from the ship's stern and that the group was excited to
return home for the first time in a decade.

''We've been all over Europe with Canada on our publicity material, and now
we're returning for a big homecoming and we're stabbed in the back by these
representatives of the Canadian government,'' he said, adding that the plan was
to sail through New York waterways and into Lake Ontario, for shows in Kingston,
Ontario, on Aug. 16 and 17.

But now, he said, ''I can only assume they are sitting there waiting for us to
show up.''

If it appears that the ship will be detained or impounded, Mr. Kirby said, the
company would not sail to the border, but rather remain in the Hudson River and
Lake Champlain and sail back to New York City for a 10-day engagement in Red
Hook starting Sept. 18.

''We're now theatrical refugees and we need asylum,'' he said.



                              
 In Flag Inquiry, Seeking to Unmask Twitter User

 

The Twitter account purportedly representing an ''all-powerful'' coalition of
radical cyclists has claimed responsibility for knocking out Metro-North
Railroad service, swinging the World Series and strong-arming Bruce Springsteen
into changing a song title to ''Thunder Lane.''

So when the account, @BicycleLobby, wrote on Twitter last month that it had
placed white flags atop the Brooklyn Bridge ''to signal our complete surrender''
of the bridge's bicycle path to pedestrians, most followers of the
self-described ''parody account'' allowed themselves a chuckle at the several
news organizations that reported the remark as a proper confession before
backtracking.

On Friday, though, with the authorities still searching for the perpetrators in
the flag affair, it seemed that @BicycleLobby had not been cleared. Steve
Vaccaro, a lawyer for the account's author, who has remained anonymous, said
Twitter had received a subpoena from the Manhattan district attorney's office in
a bid to identify his client.

''He's claimed credit for the moon landing, for the faking of President Obama's
birth certificate, for the crash of the New York Times website,'' Mr. Vaccaro
said. ''It should be transparently clear to anyone that this was a joke.''

The district attorney's office declined to comment.

Meanwhile, the New York Police Department suggested on Friday that it had made
some progress in the investigation. A department spokesman said ''we have an
idea'' of who was responsible for replacing the American flags with the white
flags on July 22, but added that it was unclear when any arrests might be made.

The role of social media posts in court has received increased attention in
recent years, perhaps most notably in a case involving an Occupy Wall Street
protester, with Twitter at times resisting requests for information about its
users.

Twitter declined to discuss the flag case, but said in a statement that as a
policy, it notified users of requests for their information ''prior to
disclosure unless we are prohibited from doing so.''

Word of the subpoena rankled cycling and pedestrian advocates on Friday,
particularly as cycling groups have pressed the Manhattan district attorney,
Cyrus R. Vance Jr., to prosecute driving offenses more aggressively.

In a series of posts on Friday, @BicycleLobby had another concern: making clear
that, for at least one day, it was not kidding.

''These last tweets are 100% true,'' it wrote. ''Everything else posted before
today is clearly a joke.''



                              
 Missouri Unrest Leaves the Right Torn Over Views on Law vs. Order

 

WASHINGTON -- When the police bring the hammer down, whether on Occupy Wall
Street in Manhattan's Zuccotti Park in 2011 or outside the Democratic National
Convention in Chicago in 1968, the response from conservatives tend to be fairly
consistent: The protesters got what they had coming.

But demonstrations this week over the shooting of Michael Brown, an unarmed
teenager, by a police officer in Ferguson, Mo., and the overwhelming law
enforcement response that followed have stirred more complicated reactions, with
many on the right torn between an impulse to see order restored and concern
about whether the crackdown is a symptom of a state run amok.

With broadcasts from Ferguson showing the streets engulfed in smoke as officers
looked on wearing military fatigues and carrying high-powered rifles, some
prominent conservative commentators and leading Republican politicians began
questioning whether the police had gone too far.

These reactions point to a larger debate inside the conservative movement today
as Republicans struggle with how enthusiastically to embrace an ascendant strain
of libertarianism within their ranks. Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, a likely
candidate for president in 2016, starkly laid out one side of the argument in an
op-ed published on Time.com on Thursday.

''There should be a difference between a police response and a military
response,'' he wrote. ''The images and scenes we continue to see in Ferguson
resemble war more than traditional police action.''

Other conservatives have focused on instances in which chaos has broken out in
the streets. Images and headlines on The Drudge Report and Breitbart.com have
singled out acts of violence among demonstrators and shown looters breaking
store windows.

In one segment broadcast on Fox News on Thursday, a reporter walked down the
street with demonstrators who he said were members of the New Black Panther
Party, a radical group.

Since Richard M. Nixon made cracking down on crime a central issue of his 1968
presidential campaign, Republicans have held themselves up as the alternative to
a Democratic Party they have derided as soft on issues of law and order. But an
appetite for changes in the criminal justice system has been building among
Republicans, many of whom believe the tough-justice approach has run its course.

Mr. Paul, Senator Rob Portman of Ohio and Representative Paul D. Ryan of
Wisconsin are among those who say that the federal and state governments need to
rethink the way convicts are sentenced and imprisoned, arguing that the current
system is inhumane and too costly.

Mr. Paul's remarks on Thursday were similar to those of other leading
conservatives who have weighed in on the events in Ferguson.

''Reporters should never be detained -- a free press is too important -- simply
for doing their jobs,'' Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, wrote on his
Facebook page on Thursday, reacting to news that journalists from The Washington
Post and The Huffington Post had been held by the police. ''Civil liberties must
be protected, but violence is not the answer.''

Erick Erickson, a conservative writer, took to Twitter to question why the
police needed to display so much firepower. ''It is pretty damn insane that
people who spend all day writing speeding tickets,'' he wrote, ''hop in tanks
with AR-15s at night.''

Many conservatives were unsettled by the militaristic response from law
enforcement officials in Ferguson -- a show of force that they said dangerously
resembled the actions a police state would take.

Mr. Paul, quoting from research by the libertarian-leaning Cato Institute and
the conservative Heritage Foundation, noted the trend of police departments'
buying military-style vehicles and weapons, condemning ''the cartoonish
imbalance between the equipment some police departments possess and the
constituents they serve.''

''When you couple this militarization of law enforcement,'' he added, ''with an
erosion of civil liberties and due process that allows the police to become
judge and jury -- national security letters, no-knock searches, broad general
warrants, preconviction forfeiture -- we begin to have a very serious problem on
our hands.''

But that attitude was not universally shared. In much of the conservative news
media, the protesters in Ferguson are being portrayed as ''outside agitators,''
in the words of Sean Hannity, the Fox News host.

Mr. Erickson said, ''The natural reaction of conservatives, I think, has always
been in defense of law and order.''

But lately, he added, there has been an awakening among many on the right. Many
see an increasingly disproportionate response to crime as a sign of a larger
problem that should rattle the consciences of conservatives who are wary of
centralized authority, he said.

''As more and more people become aware of how overcriminalized the law and
regulatory system of the United States is, they become aware of just how easily
it is for them to be carted off to jail for innocuous behavior,'' Mr. Erickson
said. ''That necessarily increases distrust of the system over all.''

Another question raised by the unrest in Ferguson -- one that poses far more
discomfort for Republicans -- is how race plays into unequal treatment under the
justice system.

On this delicate issue, Mr. Paul went a step further than many other
conservatives this week. With a system so broken, he wrote, it is no wonder
black people in Ferguson feel singled out.

He added a personal aside. ''If I had been told to get out of the street as a
teenager, there would have been a distinct possibility that I might have smarted
off,'' Mr. Paul wrote. ''But I wouldn't have expected to be shot.''



                              
 The Ministry of the Bathroom

 

St. Paul's Chapel, the tour guide explained to the guests in its sun-dappled
churchyard on Monday, was built in 1766, making it the oldest building in
continuous use in Manhattan. George Washington prayed there. When the twin
towers of the World Trade Center collapsed across the street in 2001, the chapel
suffered not even a broken window.

And then the guide, Zev Baranov, relayed the most remarkable thing about St.
Paul's, at least from the point of view of 20 tourists who had just completed a
two-hour walking tour of Lower Manhattan on a hot summer's day.

''Bathrooms are in this church; there are three of them, and they are free to
use,'' he said, to some relieved nods. ''And then you can see the inside of the
church, too.''

Tourist numbers are exploding downtown -- 11.5 million tourists visited in 2012
alone -- but public facilities have not kept pace. The memorial plaza at the
trade center site, for example, has no public restrooms. So Trinity Episcopal
Church, at the foot of Wall Street, and its nearby satellite chapel, St. Paul's,
have found themselves de facto rest stops for many of the three million to four
million guests they welcome through their doors each year.

The crush has resulted in the storied churches' most unexpected mission: its
bathroom ministry. And though it means tour groups traipsing through the
sanctuary to the restrooms, never-ending rolls of toilet paper and constant
cleaning, it is a ministry the church says it counts as among its most important
daily services to the public -- even though the church, overwhelmed, sometimes
ponders if the access should be reined in.

''We believe God imbues everything, so there is a spiritual component to a
building, a door, a bathroom, because of the way our bodies are constructed,''
said David Jette, Trinity's head verger, who coordinates worship services. ''So
anything we can do to assist that -- to relieve a need -- is good.''

At Trinity, a graceful Gothic Revival edifice whose 25-story spire is framed by
the canyons of Wall Street, visitors stream in throughout the day from the
cacophony of the streets. Yet the question they ask most frequently upon
entering the soaring, tranquil space is not where the body of Alexander Hamilton
is buried in the churchyard, or whether the secret tunnels depicted under the
church in the 2004 film ''National Treasure'' are real. (Alas, they are not.)

''Is there a bathroom?'' is the question, and there seems to be no language
barrier.

''And you always get a very positive response,'' Mr. Jette said, ''and that look
of relief!''

A daily rhythm has developed. When Trinity opens each morning at 7 a.m., many of
the visitors are homeless people and others who have spent the night on the
street. At 11 a.m., the tourist traffic starts to build, joined by locals
attending events or visiting on their lunch hour. Not until late afternoon does
the squeaking of stall doors and the whir of high-speed hand driers diminish.

It doesn't hurt that Trinity's bathrooms are nice by public-restroom standards
-- cathedral ceilings, wood-framed mirrors, pedestal sinks, even stained-glass
windows. The women's room has only two stalls, each with its own private sink;
the men's room, roughly the same size, has stalls, urinals and a baby-changing
station. At St. Paul's, several blocks north, the three unisex bathrooms are
less fancy, but lines are long, because the church, which evolved into a kind of
shrine to the recovery efforts after the attacks of Sept. 11, is a favorite
starting and end point for tours.

Rob Cardazone, a guide with City Wonders Tours, assembled his guests this week
in the sanctuary of St. Paul's before heading to the National September 11
Memorial. ''I have to remind them over and over again to use these bathrooms,''
he said. ''Otherwise you just have to tell them to hold it or they have to leave
the tour.''

Many tourists interviewed said they were surprised -- happily so -- to see that
the restrooms were open to everyone. ''We were at Starbucks, and the line was so
long that we thought we would just take a chance,'' said Shirley Merdes, who was
visiting from Denver with her grandson. ''God was with us.''

''I almost took a shower inside,'' said Andrea Guzman, 27, from Ibague,
Colombia; water beaded around her neck as she headed back out to the heat.

Some statistics may help give a sense of the scale of the endeavor. At Trinity,
for example, the church estimates its restrooms go through toilet paper at a
rate of 6,000 feet a day and 2.2 million feet a year. Last year, about 267,000
paper towels were thrown in the trash, and 260 liters of hand soap were used. A
cost estimate for maintenance -- nearly five hours of work a day -- and supplies
is $92,000 a year. At St. Paul's, annual paper towel use is higher -- some
600,000 sheets -- and about a million feet of toilet paper is used. Supplies and
maintenance cost about $77,000 a year.

The cost would severely tax some parishes, but not Trinity Wall Street, the
Episcopal parish that includes both Trinity Church and St. Paul's. It is among
the richest in Christendom, with real estate holdings estimated to be worth
about $3 billion, the remaining legacy of a 215-acre land grant from Queen Anne
of England in 1705. Income from those holdings and other investments was $193
million in 2013, church documents state.

Several years ago, the church's governing board, or vestry, was divided over
whether Trinity was doing enough to serve the poor, given its vast resources. It
had closed a homeless drop-in center, for example, replacing it with a brown-bag
lunch for poor people in the Trinity churchyard twice a week.

This autumn, another direct service project, a community center called
Charlotte's Place, will close, because it is within an Art Deco office complex
at 68-74 Trinity Place that the church is demolishing to replace with a glassy
office and condo tower more than 30 stories tall. That decision has been
criticized as an example of how the church is focused too much on its own status
and wealth.

Yet through the controversies, the restrooms, which the church sees as a
ministry to both rich and poor, have quietly continued as a small, if vital,
community service, though critics of the church say it should do more.

Given Trinity's resources, ''the little blessings they are scattering are
meager,'' said the Rev. Michael Sniffen, who is the rector of the Episcopal
Church of St. Luke and St. Matthew in Brooklyn, and who was arrested in a
Trinity-owned lot during the Occupy Wall Street protests.

''If they really wanted to have a bathroom ministry,'' he said, ''they would
build some sort of bathroom and shower facility for the enormous number of
homeless people in New York City.''

A few hours spent by the restrooms recently showed how much a part of the fabric
of life they have become. A New York Police Department traffic officer rushed in
to use a restroom from the chaos of Broadway, which was clogged with
double-decker tour buses and road construction. An office building maintenance
worker explained that each day he came to the church to light a candle, pray --
and yes, use the bathroom before heading back to work.

Robert Johnson, an impoverished older man from Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, comes
often for the brown-bag lunch, then lingers to chat with people and wash up. ''I
enjoy it,'' he said. ''It's a beautiful church.''

Other famous New York churches, like Riverside Church and St. Thomas Church,
also offer public restrooms. But St. Patrick's Cathedral on Fifth Avenue, which
gets about five million visitors a year, made tabloid headlines this year when a
visitor complained that tourists there were told to go to a building across the
street.

St. Patrick's, built in the 1870s, is undergoing a $170 million renovation, but
adding public restrooms is not part of the plan, said Joseph Zwilling, the
spokesman for the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York. They would cost
several million dollars to install, because upgrades to the old infrastructure
would be required.

In 2012, Trinity briefly closed its restrooms because of vandalism; the church
blamed an Occupy Wall Street contingent who camped outside the church for months
to protest its failure to do more for them and the poor. Even now, tempers can
flare when tour guides treat the church primarily as a rest stop, particularly
if they try to escort large groups through the sanctuary to get to the toilets
during Mass.

Every now and then, Mr. Jette said, a church leader suggests tightening access
at Trinity to avoid such problems. But for now, the bathroom ministry remains
part of Trinity's calling. ''It's not the only thing that you would point to,
but you can't ignore it,'' Mr. Jette said. ''It's too urgent.''



                              
 What Started as a Local Protest in Missouri Grows Into a Center of
National Activism

 

On Tuesday, Mikki Kendall was in her Chicago home, watching live streams on her
laptop as protesters and the police played out a 10th straight day of
confrontation in the streets of Ferguson, Mo. On Wednesday, she was on the road,
headed 300 miles to offer demonstrators her services as a former Army medic.

''I don't want to take up space or be in the way,'' she said. ''It's about
making sure people have a steady supply of what they need. I can't watch this
happen night after night and not want to help.''

Ms. Kendall, 37, a writer, a blogger and an activist, is one of the less visible
participants in what could be the transformation of a purely local protest into
a center of national activism. Driven in part by posts on Twitter and other
social media outlets, a phalanx of protesters from across the nation has
descended on Ferguson, from rap and hip-hop stars to veterans of the Occupy Wall
Street movement to more ordinary people like Ms. Kendall.

They bring food and medical supplies and toys to entertain babies while their
parents march in the streets. They make up a significant portion of those
protesters who confront the police aggressively enough to be arrested: Of the
103 people taken into custody during overnight protests on Monday and Tuesday,
23 were out-of-staters, from Alabama, California, the District of Columbia and
Texas, among other places, according to the St. Louis County Police Department.
One demonstrator from Austin, Tex., has been arrested three times, according to
the Missouri State Highway Patrol.

In truth, the drop-in protesters are a motley bunch, with a patchwork of
agendas. There are Amnesty International observers in yellow T-shirts and
Tibetan monks in red robes, their hands raised in the air in the demonstrations'
signature gesture. There is a billionaire co-founder of Twitter -- the St. Louis
native Jack Dorsey -- and representatives of the hacker group Anonymous, who
have posted live video and protest updates online. The outsiders are welcomed by
some Fergusonians as new troops in a wearing battle for justice. But they are
deeply resented by others who suspect their motives and question their behavior.

On the street where Michael Brown, an African-American teenager, was shot by a
white police officer on Aug. 9, two women who said they were from a neighboring
city staged their own protest Tuesday, a high-decibel, roughly hourlong speech
about police injustice and Jesus Christ.

''You don't belong around here!'' a longtime resident, Angela Shaver, finally
shouted back. ''I have been here 20 years and we don't need all you people here!
I don't believe in this! This is not keeping the peace!''

Ms. Shaver said she worried that too many of the outsiders were coming to
Ferguson to cause trouble, not to protest peacefully. ''If you got an angry
person like her out here and she meets up with another angry person, that just
provokes more anger,'' she said of the two women protesting. ''I pray it goes
away. This is a mess.''

A Democratic state senator from Missouri, Maria Chappelle-Nadal, said Monday in
an interview with Fox News that anarchists were among the Ferguson protesters.
Others have claimed, so far without proof, that some demonstrators hail from an
anarchist group in Oakland, Calif., blamed for vandalism and looting in 2009,
when demonstrators there protested the shooting death of an unarmed black man by
a white transit police officer.

On Wednesday, Antonio French, a St. Louis alderman whose Twitter reports on the
demonstration have gained him some measure of fame, posted online a photograph
of a St. Louis police car, its right door and hood spray-painted with the words
''Victory'' and ''Revolt.''

''I could be wrong,'' he posted, ''but this doesn't look like the work of
locals.''

While some celebrity activists like the Rev. Jesse L. Jackson Sr. and the Rev.
Al Sharpton gravitated to television cameras and regaled crowds with speeches,
others -- like the hip-hop artists J. Cole and Nelly, another St. Louis native
-- appeared at the protests with little flourish.

Another hip-hop artist, Talib Kweli, arrived in Ferguson on Tuesday ''as a
member of the community, not as a rapper or celebrity,'' according to his
Twitter feed.

''People need to see that our elders are more than Al and Jesse,'' he wrote.
''Al and Jesse cannot control the narrative for us.''

A website purporting to represent Anonymous struck a chord reminiscent of the
antiwar protests of the 1960s, posting a timetable of ''Days of Rage'' protests
scheduled on Thursday in 37 cities. ''If your city is not listed,'' the post
said, ''make a Facebook event for it now.''

Organizers affiliated with the Occupy movement staged a nationwide
teleconference Tuesday evening, discussing how to link the Ferguson protests
with other protest movements like that of Palestinians in Gaza and the West
Bank. They solicited donations for Mr. Brown's family and for bail for arrested
protesters. And they asked lawyers, photographers, health care workers, computer
programmers and youth organizers to come to Ferguson and lend their skills.

Everyone else, they said, should stay home and organize protests in their own
towns. In Ferguson, one organizer said, ''there are more than enough bodies.''



                              
 Cuomo Opponent Unbowed by Underdog Status

 

There she was, just to the right of the stage, waving her arms furiously, hoping
that the event's host, Eric L. Adams, the Brooklyn borough president, would see
her and give her a shout-out. No such luck; a tall security guard was in the
way.

As Zephyr Teachout was leaving the gospel concert in East Flatbush, a man in a
wheelchair called out, ''Who are you?'' Ever eager, she explained that she was
running as a progressive against Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo in the Democratic primary.

The man, won over, pointed to a homemade campaign button pinned to Ms.
Teachout's jacket. ''Can I have your button?'' he asked. She gladly obliged.

Just a few months ago, Ms. Teachout was a popular Fordham University law
professor with ties to Occupy Wall Street and a keen interest in political
corruption. But after the liberal Working Families Party approached her to run
against Mr. Cuomo -- before it arrived at a bitterly contested decision to stick
by the governor -- Ms. Teachout decided, with the encouragement of other liberal
activists, to mount her own long-shot campaign.

Yes, she knows that few New Yorkers have heard of her. Yes, she knows that she
will not have enough money for television ads. And yes, she knows that her best
shot at statewide exposure -- a debate with Mr. Cuomo -- is unlikely. Still, she
insists that she is gaining momentum, and is zestily campaigning with a kind of
cynicism-free optimism that makes her a sunny surprise.

''I didn't know politics would be this much fun!'' she beamed after a South
Asian festival in Queens a week ago.

Privately, Ms. Teachout's admirers say that her campaign has already succeeded,
by forcing Mr. Cuomo to embrace more liberal causes. If she gets more than 25
percent in the Sept. 9 primary, some argue, then Mr. Cuomo might need to worry
about liberal angst heading into a general election against the Republican
candidate, Rob Astorino, the Westchester County executive.

Ms. Teachout does not pretend that her task will be easy. But she said the worst
that could happen would be that she got only 1 percent of the vote, and that she
became known as an idealistic but politically naïve professor.

''We're underdogs, we know that, but we're serious underdogs,'' she said at a
house party near her apartment in Fort Greene, Brooklyn.

Ms. Teachout and her running mate for lieutenant governor, Tim Wu, a Columbia
University law professor, talked about winning over the small number of
Democrats who actually vote in primaries.

They hope to tap into disillusionment or even anger with Mr. Cuomo among
teachers, public employees and upstate residents opposed to hydraulic
fracturing.

''In the face of Andrew Cuomo's silence, I am being loud,'' she said in Fort
Greene.

Mr. Cuomo has not publicly mentioned Ms. Teachout by name, and his campaign has
declined to comment on her candidacy.

Still, avid Democrats are getting to know her. A Vermont native, Ms. Teachout,
42, worked as a death penalty lawyer in North Carolina and co-founded an
organization intent on breaking up Wall Street banks. The author of a coming
book on political corruption, she is on track for tenure at Fordham early next
year.

Her most formative political experience came in 2003, when she became the
director of online organizing for Howard Dean's presidential campaign.

''She was terrific; she was hard-working,'' Mr. Dean said during a
10th-anniversary celebration that Ms. Teachout attended for Democracy for New
York City, a Dean-inspired group.

She often mentions two United States senators -- Elizabeth Warren of
Massachusetts and Sherrod Brown of Ohio -- as role models. She also raves about
State Senator Gustavo Rivera of the Bronx and Letitia James, the New York City
public advocate.

She even buys into the anti-''crony capitalism'' message, if not the
prescription, of Dave Brat, the Virginia professor and Tea Party upstart who
defeated Eric Cantor, the former House majority leader, in the Republican
primary in June.

Like Mr. Brat, Ms. Teachout has little money. But contributions have increased
so much since Mr. Cuomo unsuccessfully tried to kick her off the ballot that a
highly targeted online advertising campaign is planned. She has a paid staff of
about 10, and shares a cramped office in Midtown Manhattan with lawyers, real
estate brokers and a casting company.

On the trail, she often asks people what they want in a governor. She has also
honed a stump speech, talking about her unusual name (yes, that is her first
name, and her last name is Dutch), then touching on public schools, small
businesses, transportation and infrastructure.

''In my vision we can have an economy and a democracy that works for all of us,
not just the wealthy and well-connected,'' she said at a street fair outside the
Bronx Zoo a week ago, eliciting a few ''that's right'' replies.

To get around, Ms. Teachout usually takes public transportation or relies on
rides from volunteers, especially when she travels to Ithaca, Binghamton and
other areas to fire up ''fractivists.'' One afternoon she spent $65 to take five
people, including an aide and an independent filmmaker, from the Bronx to Queens
by livery cab.

Things do not always go according to plan.

At the Chatpati Mela celebration in Jackson Heights, for example, she could not
distribute any campaign literature (black-and-white photocopies) or speak
onstage -- it was a strictly nonpartisan affair.

Unfazed, she talked excitedly with vendors until she stumbled upon some
Bangladeshis selling saris. After hearing about the travails of establishing
small businesses, she bought an orange one for $20, and tried it on.

''Should I wear this to my debate with Governor Cuomo?'' she joked.



                              
 New York Today: Fair and Fall-Like

 

 Good morning on this resplendent Wednesday.

It is technically still summer until Sept. 22.

But today kicks off a five-day preview of the best of fall: Sunny, nearly
cloudless, and crisp - especially on Friday.

Today and Thursday bring blue skies with a high of 73 degrees, slightly cooler
than normal for this time of year.

On Friday, the mercury only climbs to the mid 60s, so dig out your favorite
cable-knit sweater and say hello to socks.

But don't lose the sunglasses. The weekend looks fair, too, and warmer, climbing
nearly to 80 on Sunday.

The flip side of all this sunny weather is that it has rained very little this
month - only 0.37 inches, which is 82 percent below normal for the month.

And over the last 60 days, there's been just over three inches of rain, whereas
the normal would be almost nine inches.

Here's what else you need to know for Wednesday.

COMING UP TODAY

A pop-up version of the "Friends" coffee shop, "Central Perk," serves free
coffee for the show's 20th anniversary, at 199 Lafayette Street in SoHo. 8 a.m.
to 8 p.m.

The City Council accepts a vegetable depiction of the Manhattan skyline, PETA's
award for being the most vegan-friendly city of 2014. City Hall steps. 11 a.m.

The mayor plays in a softball game between his office and the City Council at
MCU Park in Coney Island. 6:30 p.m.

Learn how to screen-print using the sun at the Story store in Chelsea. 6:30 p.m.

An illustrated and possibly very quick-paced lecture on caffeine at the
Mid-Manhattan Library. 6:30 p.m. [Free]

Humor writers read emails too terrible to send at Housing Works in SoHo. 7 p.m.
[Free, R.S.V.P.]

Opening reception for an exhibit devoted to Ntozake Shange's 1974 play "For
Colored Girls ..." at the Schomburg Center in Harlem. 8 p.m.

The Queer New York International Arts Festival begins with "a radical theater
experiment" out of Croatia, at the Abrons Arts Center on the Lower East Side. 9
p.m. [$15 suggested]

Yankees at Rays, 7:10 p.m. (YES). Mets host Marlins, 7:10 p.m. (SNY).

For more events, see The New York Times Arts & Entertainment guide.

COMMUTE

Subway  and  PATH

L.I.R.R., Metro-North, N.J. Transit, Amtrak

Roads: Check traffic map or radio report on the 1s or the 8s.

Alternate-side parking: in effect till Sept. 25.

Air travel: La Guardia, J.F.K., Newark.

IN THE NEWS

As the de Blasio administration has continued to criticize the previous mayor,
former Bloomberg administration officials have moved to defend their former
boss. [New York Times]

This year's MacArthur Awards, which will be announced today, honor several New
Yorkers, including the labor organizer Ai-jen Poo. [New York Times]

A New York man was charged with trying to support the Islamic State. [New York
Times]

Two people were charged with posing as landlords and swindling would-be
Manhattan renters out of $60,000. [New York Times]

Fliers showing swastikas above the word "Uber" were found in Williamsburg and
are being investigated as a hate crime. [DNAinfo]

The Standard Hotel offered a Champagne-and-dinner apology to three black women -
a lawyer and two teachers - who were falsely accused by a security guard of
being prostitutes. [AlterNet via New York]

The Cranberry Tube, used by the A and C, may be the next hurricane-damaged
subway tunnel to undergo repairs.  [WNYC]

A real estate executive has proposed building a high-speed tramway to connect
the Lower East Side and Williamsburg. [Gothamist]

At least 550 monk parrots live in the city, many of them in Queens -near the
airports where their ancestors were shipped from South America. [New York Times]

The Parks Department's blacksmith has retired. They are looking for a new one.
[DNAinfo]

Scoreboard: Rays zap Yankees, 6-1. Mets fillet Marlins, 9-1.

AND FINALLY ...

Three years ago on this date, hundreds of demonstrators gathered in Lower
Manhattan.

"They held teach-ins, engaged in discussion and debate and waved signs with
messages like 'Democracy Not Corporatization' or 'Revoke Corporate Personhood,'"
The Times reported.

"Organizers, promoters and supporters called the day, which had been widely
discussed on Twitter and other social media sites, simply September 17."

In the coming weeks, the demonstrators would pitch tents in Zuccotti Park and
the protests would set off a national movement.

September 17 would become Occupy Wall Street.

But that first day, the protesters found themselves stymied. Their target, Wall
Street, had been blocked by police barricades by 10 a.m.

Eventually, though, they made it in:

"As a chilly darkness descended, a few hundred people realized one of the day's
objectives by setting foot onto Wall Street after a quick march through winding
streets, trailed by police scooters."

Andy Newman and Kenneth Rosen contributed reporting.

New York Today is a weekday roundup that stays live from 6 a.m. till late
morning. You can receive it via email.

What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at
nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday.

Follow the New York Today columnists, Annie Correal and Andy Newman, on Twitter.

You can always find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.



                              
 Wariness as Government Shuts Down

 

Investors cautiously pulled back from the markets as a flurry of political moves
in Washington on Monday evening failed to end a budget standoff, setting up the
first government shutdown in nearly two decades, The New York Times reports.
Stock markets around the world fell on Monday, though the declines were
relatively modest in the United States while negotiations in Congress remained
stalled, Nathaniel Popper writes in DealBook. Markets in Europe were higher on
Tuesday, while stock index futures in the United States pointed to a higher
opening Tuesday morning in New York.

Many on Wall Street think the direct effect of a shutdown will be relatively
minimal from the stock market's perspective. About 800,000 federal workers are
to be furloughed and more than a million others will be asked to work without
pay, as roughly two-thirds of the government - the so-called essential functions
- will continue operating. But some economists have said the shutdown would most
likely have a broader effect on market psychology if it lasted for more than a
few days, Mr. Popper writes.

"You have an economy that has already shown some hesitation," said Diane Swonk,
the chief economist at Mesirow Financial. "That's the last thing we need right
now."

President Obama is scheduled to meet on Wednesday with members of the Financial
Services Forum, including the chiefs of banks like JPMorgan Chase and Goldman
Sachs, who are in Washington for an annual meeting. The group is expected to
discuss a range of financial issues.

FINANCIAL WATCHDOG TO DEPART AGENCY  |  David Meister, who is waging legal
battles against some of the biggest names in finance, is poised to step down
from his role as head of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission's enforcement
unit, a move that may put the future of those cases in question, DealBook's Ben
Protess reports. The commission announced his departure early on Tuesday,
capping Mr. Meister's effort to embolden an agency once dismissed as "the
watchdog that didn't bark."

"Over a nearly three-year stretch, Mr. Meister helped write new rules to expand
the enforcement unit's authority, overhauled the unit's management ranks and
filed a record number of actions against the financial industry. An
investigation into the banking industry's manipulation of benchmark interest
rates - a crackdown on banks like UBS and Barclays - defined his tenure," Mr.
Protess writes. Still, his exit - and the exit of Gary Gensler, the agency's
chairman, whose term expires in December - comes at an awkward time.

One of the most prominent cases is an investigation into whether JPMorgan Chase
traders in London built a position so big that they manipulated the market for
financial contracts known as derivatives. That comes as the Justice Department
and other regulators are trying to negotiate a settlement with JPMorgan over
allegations of mortgage abuses - a case that, to many on Wall Street, seems
unfair, DealBook's Peter Eavis writes. "But JPMorgan may not be the martyr some
think it is."

In the Justice Department's effort over mortgages, a person inside the bank is
providing valuable assistance to the government, according to The Wall Street
Journal, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. "The cooperating
person has provided information - including e-mails - suggesting the bank vastly
overstated the quality of mortgages that were being bundled into securities and
sold to investors before the financial crisis, the people said."

DOUBTS RAISED ON THE VALUE OF CONSULTANTS TO PENSIONS  | "At a time when
individual investors are increasingly demanding transparency in performance
track records, the biggest slice of the investment world - pension funds - has
conspicuously turned a blind eye to demanding track records from their most
influential advisers, investment consultants," Andrew Ross Sorkin writes in the
DealBook column. "A new study by professors at the University of Oxford is
causing a stir in the staid pension investment industry, highlighting the subpar
performance of most consultants and, more important, the lack of disclosure that
would allow the public to even know about it."

ON THE AGENDA  |  It is the first day of a government shutdown. Walgreen is
scheduled to report earnings before the market opens. Empire State Realty Trust,
owner of the Empire State Building, is expected to price its I.P.O. on Tuesday
evening. Pierre Cailleteau, managing director for sovereign ratings at Moody's,
is on Bloomberg TV at 11:15 a.m.

AN OCCUPY WALL STREET DEBIT CARD  | To commemorate the second anniversary of the
Occupy Wall Street movement in September, a surprising undertaking began with
little fanfare: creating a prepaid Occupy debit card, Colin Moynihan reports in
The New York Times. "The idea, led by a group that includes a Cornell law
professor, a former director of Deutsche Bank and a former British diplomat, is
meant to serve people who do not have bank accounts, but it also aims to make
Occupy a recognized financial services brand."

 |  Contact: @williamalden | E-mail

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

Mergers & Acquisitions »

Mergers Holding Steady  |  For the first nine months of the year, Goldman Sachs
claimed the top spot among financial advisers, having worked on 285 deals
worldwide worth nearly $517 billion. DealBook »

Cooper Tire Shareholders Approve Sale to Indian Tire Maker  |  The shareholder
approval was a big step forward for the $2.5 billion sale of Cooper Tire and
Rubber to Apollo Tyres of India, but the deal still faces hurdles. REUTERS

How the Deal for Rue21 Could Fall Apart  |  A report of weak sales by the
retailer rue21 has spooked potential investors in a private equity deal to buy
the company. The question now is whether the three banks on the deal want to
risk their reputations by trying to kill it, Steven M. Davidoff writes in the
Deal Professor column. DealBook »

Frontier Airlines to Be Acquired by Investment Firm  |  "The man who turned
Spirit Airlines Inc. into one of the industry's stingiest but most profitable
carriers agreed in principle to buy Denver-based Frontier Airlines, a
transaction that likely signals the expansion of the ultralow-cost sector of the
U.S. airline industry, according to a person familiar with the deal," The Wall
Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL

Nielsen Completes Acquisition of Arbitron  |  Nielsen Holdings said on Monday
that its $1.26 billion acquisition of the radio ratings company Arbitron would
allow it to monitor eight hours a day of the public's media consumption across
television, radio and a range of electronic devices. NEW YORK TIMES

INVESTMENT BANKING »

Former Trader Looks at the Changes in Goldman  |  "What Happened to Goldman
Sachs" examines the bank's evolution from an elite private partnership to a vast
public corporation - and the effects of that transformation on its culture.
DealBook »

Berkshire Hathaway to Receive $2 Billion of Goldman Stock  |  Berkshire is
getting Goldman Sachs stock worth nearly $2.15 billion through warrants it
acquired as part of a deal in 2008, Reuters reports. REUTERS

Barclays Names Top Aerospace Banker  |  Barclays has announced that Jay Caldwell
will join the bank as global head of its aerospace and defense team. DealBook »

Freddie Mac Names Ally Executive as Finance Chief  |  Freddie Mac said on Monday
it had chosen James Mackey, a top executive at Ally Financial, to be its chief
financial officer, succeeding Ross Kari. REUTERS

Mutual Fund Billionaire Gives $250 Million to Yale  |  Charles B. Johnson, the
retired chairman of the money management company Franklin Resources, has pledged
$250 million to Yale. DealBook »

Bank Fees Rise for 15th Straight Year  |
USA TODAY

PRIVATE EQUITY »

Apollo's Energy I.P.O. Gives New Life to Quick Flips  |  Apollo Global
Management is showing that private equity can still dig into its old bag of
tricks, Christopher Swann of Reuters Breakingviews writes. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS

Active Network in $1.05 Billion Buyout  |  Active Network, which provides online
tools and data management for events, has agreed to be acquired by the private
equity firm Vista Equity Partners in a deal valued at $1.05 billion. DealBook »

HEDGE FUNDS »

Perry Capital Cuts Stake in J.C. Penney  |  The hedge fund began to cut its
stake on Friday, coinciding with J.C. Penney's disclosure of a planned sale of
as much as 96.6 million new common shares. DealBook »

I.P.O./OFFERINGS »

Container Store Aims to Raise $200 Million in I.P.O.  |  The Container Store
Group, a 35-year-old retail chain based in Texas, filed for an initial public
offering, saying it planned to use the proceeds to pay a dividend to holders of
its senior preferred stock and to repay debt. REUTERS

VENTURE CAPITAL »

Cybersecurity Firm Cigital Raises $50 Million  |  Cigital, which helps
enterprise customers maintain software applications to protect against cyber
threats, announced on Tuesday that it raised $50 million from LLR Partners, to
support its expansion and growth. CIGITAL

Payments Start-Up Leaf Raises $20 Million  |  Leaf, a competitor to Square and
other payments companies, attracted $20 million from Heartland Payment Systems,
a big payments processing company, AllThingsD reports. ALLTHINGSD

LEGAL/REGULATORY »

Despite Cries of Unfair Treatment, JPMorgan Is No Victim  |  Some banking
experts say they believe the government is picking on JPMorgan Chase, but the
bank may not be the martyr some think it is. News Analysis »

No Limit on Strikes for JPMorgan Chase  |  Simply paying money to get rid of
investigations raises questions about whether JPMorgan Chase should be viewed as
a recidivist, and if so how the law should treat the bank, Peter J. Henning
writes in the White Collar Watch column. DealBook »

Wells Fargo Settles With Freddie Mac Over Loans  |  Wells Fargo agreed to pay
$780 million in cash to Freddie Mac to resolve repurchase liabilities on home
loans sold to the mortgage finance giant before 2009, Reuters reports. REUTERS

For Sweden's Banks, Fast Growth Isn't Seen as the Goal  |  "The dream scenario
would be that the economy grows a little bit faster than the bank sector," Peter
Norman, Sweden's financial markets minister, told Bloomberg News. BLOOMBERG NEWS

Former Morgan Stanley Broker Pleads Guilty in Insider Case  |  A former
financial adviser with Morgan Stanley admitted to tipping off a childhood friend
to Gilead Sciences' plan in 2011 to buy Pharmasset, before the takeover was
announced. REUTERS

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.



                              
 New York Today: Again With the Snow

 

 Updated 6:41 a.m.

Good chilly Tuesday morning. It is now snowing across New York City.

What is this, Buffalo?

Not quite - they've had more than twice as much snow as us so far.

But another two to four inches is expected to blanket our region, just in time
to mess up the morning commute as temperatures stay well below freezing.

That would make the fourth measurable snowfall in a 10-day stretch of - can it
be? - autumn.

Stephen Fybish, a freelance weather historian, could not locate any precedent
for it in his voluminous records.

"For four days to have measurable snow before winter is very rare," he said.

The snow is expected to peak from 9 a.m. till early afternoon.

Many schools are closed or opening late.

A winter weather advisory is in effect till 4 p.m.

We may get another snow shower tonight.

Another tidbit from Mr. Fybish: The last 13 times there has been eight inches of
snow in December, at least 17 inches more has fallen from January onward.

The expected high of 33 today would also make it the 11th straight day with
colder than normal temperatures.

On that front, at least, things are easing. It should hit 50 over the weekend.

And no more snow is forecast before Christmas.

Here's what else you need to know.

COMMUTE

Subways: Delays on the northbound C and E. Check latest status.

Rails: O.K. so far. Check L.I.R.R., Metro-North or New Jersey Transit status.

Roads: No major delays. Check traffic map or radio report on the 1s or the 8s.

Alternate-side parking is  suspended  for the snow, but meters remain in effect.

DE BLASIO WATCH

From David W. Chen of the City Hall bureau of The Times:

For the fourth day in a row, the mayor-elect has no public events.

But a least we know a little about what he did on Monday. "I actually had lunch
with incoming Mayor de Blasio today," Jeff Klein, the Democratic State Senate
co-leader, told "Capital Tonight."

And the day before that: On Sunday, he attended a holiday dinner held by the
Brooklyn Democratic Party, which endorsed his opponent William C. Thompson Jr.
in the primary. [Capital New York]

Mr. de Blasio has been calling City Council members urging them to elect
Councilwoman Melissa Mark-Viverito of Manhattan the next council speaker, NY1
reports.

An Elle magazine interview with the future first lady, Chirlane McCray, hits the
newsstands today. "The quiet defiance of that nose ring" she was wearing when
she first met Mr. de Blasio is among the topics addressed.

COMING UP TODAY

Mayor Bloomberg begins a five-borough farewell tour by opening the renovated
skating rink in Prospect Park at 11 a.m.

The most important Whole Foods opening of our time, by the Gowanus Canal in
Brooklyn. 9 a.m. [Free, except for everything]

Comptroller John C. Liu delivers his valedictory State of the City address
downtown at 10 a.m.

The Landmarks Preservation Commission votes on whether to create the South
Village Historic District in Manhattan.

Lunchtime Dixieland with the Gotham Jazzmen at the Public Library for the
Performing Arts in Lincoln Center. 12 p.m. [Free]

Behind the pastrami curtain: the owner of Katz's Delicatessen dishes and talks
about his new book at Powerhouse Arena in Dumbo. 7 p.m. [Free, R.S.V.P.]

What kind of babka did Elaine and Jerry end up taking to the dinner party? If
you know, you'll probably excel at Seinfeld Trivia at McGee's in Midtown. 8 p.m.
[Free]

For more events, see The New York Times Arts & Entertainment guide.

IN THE NEWS

Next acts: The departing police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, has signed up
with a high-priced talent agency and will hit the public-speaking circuit.
[Daily News]

Governor Cuomo is pushing for a tax break for New York City renters. [Associated
Press]

The New York Archdiocese is exempt from the federal mandate to cover
contraceptive care for its employees at schools and hospitals, a judge ruled.
[New York Times]

The city agreed to speed up the cleanup of mold in public housing to settle a
suit filed by people with asthma. [New York Times]

Scoreboard: Nets trounce 76ers, 130-94. Wizards bedevil Knicks, 102-101.

The Jets are out of the playoffs after the Ravens beat the Lions.

AND FINALLY...

Talk about co-opting the opposition.

Walmart, Occupy Wall Street's Exhibit A for all that is rapacious about
corporate America, is selling Occupy Wall Street posters.

Photos of the tarp-strewn encampment in Zuccotti Park, "printed on Premium Heavy
Stock Paper which captures all of the vivid colors and details of the original,"
go for $52.25.

They're in the "Marketplace" section of  Walmart's site, which lets third
parties sell items.

"This print is ready for hanging or framing and would make a great addition to
your home or office," the description says.

Joseph Burgess and Annie Correal contributed reporting.

New York Today is a morning roundup that stays live from 6 a.m. till late
morning.

What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at
nytoday@nytimes.com or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday.

Find us on weekdays at nytoday.com.



                              
 Agitating for Justice and Freedom With a Camera

 

Like an Old Testament prophet, the photographer Danny Lyon has agitated for his
fellow man to pursue justice and freedom. This was not always a popular message,
nor a lucrative one, but that wasn't how he saw his role.

"I wasn't interested in money," Mr. Lyon wrote in an email exchange last week.
"If I wanted to, I would have opened an automobile dealership. It was 1962 and I
wanted to change America."

That is what he set out to do when he joined the Student Nonviolent Coordinating
Committee and photographed the civil rights struggles in the South. Afterward,
he joined the Chicago Outlaw Motorcycle Club and documented its pursuit of
individualism in defiance of societal norms. In the late '60s, he immersed
himself in the Texas prison system, and more recently he covered Occupy Wall
Street.

His work has been published in books including "The Bikeriders," "Conversations
With the Dead" and "Memories of the Southern Civil Rights Movement." But his
photos rarely appeared in magazines because he wanted complete control of the
text and did not trust them to get it right.

"If I was going to work so hard, to risk my life, to devote my waking
consciousness and time to a single object, making pictures, how could I turn
them over to someone else to select, to crop, to arrange and worse to place
words with pictures that were not mine?" Mr. Lyon said during a presentation at
the National Geographic Photography Seminar this month. "My pictures had to be
protected."

Starting with "The Bikeriders" in 1967, he demanded control of his books, even
though his early efforts were not financially successful. But there have been
subsequent printings that have become seminal texts for many young documentary
photographers. This spring, Aperture will issue a facsimile of the original
edition of "The Bikeriders," the fourth time the book has been published, and
Phaidon will issue "The Seventh Dog," a half-century retrospective.

Over the last two decades, Mr. Lyon, 71, has also found considerable success in
museums and galleries. An unusual show this month at Manhattan's Edwynn Houk
Gallery includes only 13 works from his 50-year career. But they are mural-sized
gelatin silver prints, which provide a radically different experience of his
images than seeing them in books.

He is still making books, photographs and even films. He documented the Occupy
movement around the country and is working on a film about his former SNCC
colleague, John Lewis, who is now a congressman. His digital writings have a
decidedly analog address - Dektol.wordpress.com

Like Gordon Parks, Mr. Lyon viewed his camera - and later his audio recorder,
typewriter and movie camera - as a weapon. Objectivity was not his goal; truth
was.

Mr. Lyon was 20 when he joined the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee in
Albany, Ga. in 1962. A week later he was jailed with other protesters. The Rev.
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was in a cell in the same building.

The front lines of the civil rights movement were a risky place for his friends
and colleagues, black and white, many of whom were brutally beaten and several
of whom were murdered fighting for voting rights and the end of segregation. As
a photographer for SNCC he worked closely with Julian Bond, who accompanied him
on stage at the National Geographic seminar.

He left SNCC in 1964,  and became a member of the Chicago biker club,  riding
alongside them and staying in their clubhouse. Mr. Lyon, a self-described
"somewhat slovenly" biker, recalled that the outlaws were "physically beautiful
and dressed to kill."

"Years later people would ask if I rode a motorcycle, and I would laugh," he
said. "By then I had a farm in the Hudson Valley and rode on my 1945 Ford 9N
tractor pulling bush hog. It went about two miles an hour and made much more
noise than my Triumph. I was also equally dangerous, and I wrapped it around a
tree once and had to be rescued by the Modena Fire Department. "

Mr. Lyon gained almost complete access to the Texas state prison system for 14
months starting in 1967. It was a feat that he considered his greatest
achievement as a journalist. He still is shocked they let him in at all.

"They let me in a prison," he said. "I had been in SNCC. I was a pothead. I was
a New York Jew. How stupid could you be? No, I'm serious."

He said he might have misrepresented his intentions; after all, he was in
pursuit of a higher goal. He wanted to show the world what he considered the
inhumane conditions in the Texas prison system and, he hoped, contribute to
change. "I entered the Texas prisons determined to destroy them," he wrote
recently.

"I was not interested in improving prisons, I wanted to destroy them. Now we are
in the future. The population of the Texas prisons where I worked was 12,500.
Now it is well over 150,000. So that body of work, which took two years of my
life, was not a success."

Even some of the victories - like the Voting Rights Act - he fears are now under
attack.

"That 50 years after three young men were murdered trying to register
African-Americans to vote in Mississippi, other Americans are successfully
disenfranchising blacks in the South is shameful," he said.

But like the Old Testament prophets, Mr. Lyon's job as a photographer was to
warn humanity that it was acting badly and that mankind needed to do better - or
face the consequences. Prophets were not measured by whether people heeded their
warnings. They foretold the truth.

But individuals had to decide to act. Or not.

"Danny Lyon: Murals and Montages" continues at the Edwynn Houk Gallery in
Manhattan through Feb. 15.

Follow @HoukGallery and @JamesEstrin and @nytimesphoto on Twitter. Lens is also
on Facebook.



     ·    The Photographer and His Printer, Partners in Art and Love
     ·    Recalling and Covering Nelson Mandela
     ·    Civil Rights, One Person and One Photo at a Time
     ·    Looking at the Body Through the Lens
     ·    Following Weegee's Footsteps



                              
 Quantifying Europe's 'Too Big to Fail' Problem

 

Blistering complaints that banks are too big to fail are usually heard from the
Occupy Wall Street side of the barricades.

But on Thursday some bank analysts in the City of London weighed in with their
own hard look at the threats posed by Europe's largest lenders. The analysts,
who work at the Royal Bank of Scotland, argue that despite recent efforts to
overhaul the financial system, European taxpayers may still have to fork out
huge sums to rescue the Continent's banks in a crisis.

"Europe's banks are stronger but still too large, and sovereigns remain
vulnerable to bank risk," the analysts wrote in a research note.

The phrase "too big to fail" refers to the belief that some banks are so large
that the government would have to bail them out to prevent their collapse
dragging down the wider economy. The authorities of course acted in this way
during the 2008 financial crisis. Since then, governments have taken steps that
they say will enable them to wind down large banks, and avoid bailing them out,
when they get into trouble in the future. But because banks remain so large
compared to national economies, skeptics doubt the authorities would actually
let them fail in a future meltdown.

The Royal Bank of Scotland analysts have tried to numerically quantify the size
of "too big to fail" risk in Europe.

They do that by applying an equation that first estimates bank losses in
different crisis scenarios. The equation then assesses whether the lenders and
the region's deposit insurance funds would have the financial strength to absorb
those losses. In most cases, those buffers would be overwhelmed, the analysts
say. As a result, they contend that the taxpayers would have to step in to foot
the bill. And the burden, according to their work, could amount to many billions
of euros.

One way to protect taxpayers would be to press banks to increase their capital -
the part of the balance sheet that can cushion a lender against losses.

The Royal Bank of Scotland analysts estimate that European banks would have to
raise their capital levels by roughly $660 billion to properly protect
taxpayers. Put another way, European banks would need to raise their leverage
ratios - which measures capital as a percentage of a bank's assets - to 5.8
percent. That is nearly double the 3 percent that new international banking
regulations require. One or two countries, like Switzerland, may ultimately
force their big banks to have leverage ratios close to 6 percent. But most
European countries aren't taking a tougher approach.

The analysts may not have been wholly motivated by concern for European
taxpayers. The analysts' job is to provide their investor clients with research
on the bonds that banks themselves issue to raise money for their operations.
Such bonds are made safer investments when banks hold more capital.

Still, Alberto Gallo, an analyst who helped write the note, thinks the European
authorities need to do more to rein in large banks. "Regulators have to level
the playing field," he said. "You can't always help the big guys."



     ·    British Regulator Steps Up Review of R.B.S. Loans
     ·    Citizens Financial to Sell Chicago-Area Branches to U.S. Bancorp



                              
 New York Today: Pinstripe Preview

 

 Good Monday morning to you.

Today is opening day at Yankee Stadium.

And for the Yankees, the new season is a story of beginnings and endings.

The beginnings are all the new faces: about half the starting lineup was not
with the team last year.

The main ending is Derek Jeter's. The Yankee legend retires after this season.

He'd like to go out on a high note, or at least avoid a rerun of last year, when
the Yankees missed the playoffs for only the second time since 1994.

We asked David Waldstein, who covers the team for The Times, what it will take
for the Yankees to get back into contention.

"Health is going to be a huge issue with their older players," he said.

The team may be largely new, but it's not young. And Jeter is not the only one
who lost much of last year to injuries.

The Yankees are also coping with the loss of some big names: Robinson Cano,
Mariano Rivera. (Alex Rodriguez, too, as he finally serves his steroid
suspension, though his absence is a relief from distraction.)

The new arrivals, though, may keep things fresh.

"Keep an eye on Jacoby Ellsbury," who defected from the Red Sox, Mr. Waldstein
said. "He's going to dominate the game from the leadoff spot and in center
field."

The Yankees, who've won three and lost three so far, take on the Orioles at 1:05
p.m. (YES Network), with Hiroki Kuroda on the mound.

Here's what else you need to know.

WEATHER

First sun, then rain, but probably not till after game. High around 55.

The rain gets heavy tonight, and thunder may roll in. Clearing again tomorrow.

COMMUTE

Subways: Check latest status.

Rails: Check L.I.R.R., Metro-North or N.J. Transit status.

Roads: Check traffic map or radio report on the 1s or the 8s.

Alternate-side parking is  in effect  all week.

COMING UP TODAY

Mayor de Blasio attends a groundbreaking at an affordable-housing complex in
East New York, Brooklyn.

A two-day conference on Bitcoins begins at the Javits Center. [$20 in nonvirtual
currency]

Cecily McMillan, a prominent Occupy Wall Street activist, goes on trial on
charges of assaulting an officer at Zuccotti Park.

Senator Charles Schumer lifts his voice in favor of federal tax incentives for
live theater, at Sardi's at 11 a.m.

Scott Stringer, the city comptroller, releases a report showing that public
schools in low-income neighborhoods get shortchanged on arts education.

A public seminar on "Love, Protest, and Exile: Brazilian Music in the 20th
Century" at Queens College, with a live performance. 1:30 p.m. [Free]

There's still ice skating in Central Park, but only for one more night, and only
for the "Skating With the Stars" charity gala. 5:30 p.m. [$350 and up]

Kiss Army, deploy: Paul Stanley signs his memoir at Barnes & Noble in TriBeCa. 6
p.m. [Free]

Watch an episode of a popular and controversial Israeli TV comedy "Arab Labor,"
with its author, Sayed Kashua,  at Congregation Mount Sinai in Brooklyn Heights.
7 p.m. [Free]

Junot Díaz reads and talks at Columbia. 7:15 p.m. [Free]

For more events, see The New York Times Arts & Entertainment guide.

IN THE NEWS

Two police officers were critically injured when they rushed to the scene of an
arson fire in a Coney Island high-rise. [New York Times]

Ever heard of the Allerton neighborhood in the Bronx? Some of the 60,000 people
who live there are fighting to get the name onto maps. [New York Times]

amNewYork went clothes shopping with Chiara de Blasio, the mayor's 19-year-old
daughter.

Clayton Patterson, longtime chronicler and symbol of the Bohemian Lower East
Side, is giving up and moving to Austria. [New York Times]

Scoreboard: Yankees outmuscle Blue Jays, 6-4. Reds overthrow Mets, 2-1. Heat top
Knicks, 102-91. Blue Jackets smother Islanders, 4-0.

Sandra E. Garcia contributed reporting.

New York Today is a weekday roundup that stays live from 6 a.m. till late
morning.  You can receive it via email.

What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at
nytoday@nytimes.com or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday.

Follow the New York Today columnists, Annie Correal and Andy Newman, on Twitter.

You can always find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.



                              
 New York Today: Smell of the City

 

 Good morning to you on this clear Monday.

"Onion bagel," the smell scientist said.

Leslie Vosshall, a neurologist at Rockefeller University, stood outside Grand
Central Terminal during the morning rush last week.

She had come to discuss the scents of a New York City morning.

The savor of a toasted bagel had traveled on a breeze.

"It's windy, we don't have to move around. The smells come to us," she said.

"A few minutes ago, I smelled the East River," she said. The telltale scent:
"briny, salty, fishy."

Steam rising from underground brought "a really powdery, moist, kind of sweet
smell."

"It's like the world's biggest humidifier."

Walking through Grand Central, she picked up on pastries and coffee, after-shave
and toothpaste.

There was also "disinfectant from the trains," "brown-black shoe polish," and
"cheap air freshener from a Town Car" coming from one man's suit.

Ms. Vosshall noted the smell of the city in the morning had changed over the
years.

When she first arrived in the 1980s, "it smelled like coffee, cigarettes and
bacon," she said. "Cheap, Arabica coffee, usually burned."

"Now it just smells like high-end coffee."

She walked outside, toward Bryant Park.

"The hot dog smell is pretty entrenched here," she said.

But other familiar, unsalutary smells poked through - doughnuts, the "sour,
tangy, birdy smell" of pigeons, a puff of cigar smoke.

"Classic," she said.

Here's what else you need to know.

WEATHER

Something for everyone: morning sun, afternoon clouds, maybe a shower, and a
breeze, with a high of 68.

Tuesday will be notably sunny and warm.

COMMUTE

Subways: Delays on the B and D and on the Queens-Manhattan leg of the R. Check
latest status.

PATH: O.K. Check latest status.

Rails: Long Island Rail Road suspended between Ronkonkoma and Farmingdale
because of truck on tracks. Check L.I.R.R., Metro-North, N.J. Transit or Amtrak
status.

Roads: No major delays. Check traffic map or radio report on the 1s or the 8s.

Alternate-side parking is  in effect  until Memorial Day.

COMING UP TODAY

Free ferry rides, coffee and doughnuts all week to inaugurate West Side service
from 44th Street to World Financial Center.

Brooklyn lawmakers urge the city to declare Jackie Robinson's former home in
East Flatbush a landmark.

Sentencing for Cecily McMillan, the Occupy Wall Street protester convicted of
assaulting an officer.

Mayor de Blasio speaks at Internet Week New York, meets a Medal of Honor
recipient from the Afghanistan war, and signs a bill requiring mold-resistant
gypsum board in some buildings.

Free Nutella Cronut holes for the spread's 50th birthday, outside Eataly. 10
a.m. to 2 p.m.

The Republican candidate for governor, Rob Astorino, courts Korean-American
voters in Manhattan and attends a state League of Conservation Voters gala.

Brain scientists explain memory and compulsion while you drink beer at the "Pint
of Science" festival at Cantina Royal in Williamsburg. 7 p.m. [Free]

A lecture on the science of compassion at Tibet House near Union Square 7 p.m.
[Free]

Blondie at Rough Trade NYC, 8 p.m. [Buy album to enter]

The Obies are awarded, at Webster Hall. 8 p.m.

Rangers at Canadiens, 8 p.m. (NBCSN).

For more events, see The New York Times Arts & Entertainment guide.

IN THE NEWS

Migrant workers building N.Y.U.'s new campus in Abu Dhabi worked and lived under
grim conditions, despite the school's promise of fair treatment. [New York
Times]

The mayor has put the brakes on an overhaul of the 911 system that is years
behind schedule and nearly $1 billion over budget. [Daily News]

A 14-year-old autistic boy is missing after boarding a city bus in Manhattan
Beach, Brooklyn, on Friday. [Daily News]

The police have shot three suspects in three days, two of them fatally. [NBC New
York]

Chirlane McCray, in an interview in New York magazine, talks about being a
neglectful mother. [New York Post]

The gift shop at the new September 11 museum is "the crassest," said a woman
whose son died in the attack. [New York Post]

If you left a prosthetic leg on a Long Island Rail Road train, it's at the lost
and found in Penn Station. [New York Times]

The mysterious glop found on some subway platforms is a sealant called mastic
that drips from the ceiling. [Slate, via Gothamist]

Scoreboard: Yankees split with Pirates, 4-3 and 3-5. Sloppy Mets slip to
Nationals, 6-3.

Sandra E. Garcia and Kenneth Rosen contributed reporting.

New York Today is a weekday roundup that stays live from 6 a.m. till late
morning. You can receive it via email.

What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at
nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday.

Follow the New York Today columnists, Annie Correal and Andy Newman, on Twitter.

You can always find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.



                              
 Turning Passion Into Policy

 

A week after his election, the mayor-elect, a tall crane of a man, edged into a
low-ceilinged conference room in Downtown Brooklyn to celebrate the city's
progressive movement and its progressive victory, which happened to be his own.

Bill de Blasio smiled at the activists, who washed him in waves of applause.
''The best thing we can do is keep winning progressive victories,'' he said.
''Superficial democracy isn't good enough.''

The progressives who have taken possession of Gracie Mansion and the New York
City Council are fond of chatting of historic moments. After a dozen years of a
billionaire's version of quasi-liberal government, they are not shy about
doubling down on their ambition. They want to take a city focused intently on
the top and train its eyes on the remaining 97 or 98 percent.

They played a sometimes bare-knuckle game to get here. The greatest torrent of
so-called independent spending in the last election came from the teachers'
union and a group ostensibly opposed to carriage horses but closely aligned with
the de Blasio campaign.

When a primal tug-of-war arose to control the City Council, Mr. de Blasio cut a
deal with the Brooklyn Democratic boss to hand the speakership to a progressive.
Asked by reporters what he had traded away, the mayor-elect offered the laugh of
a non-answer.

Ideological discipline is central. It will be a rare Republican, Mr. de Blasio
has suggested, who takes a senior position. ''They have to share our values,''
he said. ''That might be a high bar.''

But for all their self-assurance and claims made about historical turning
points, the progressives have yet to define themselves. How will they
distinguish themselves from Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, whose policies on
housing, the streetscape, transportation, public health and taxis edged
noticeably to the left?

A forest of question marks rises around the new mayor. He was a political
operative, a public advocate with little power and a Council member who stood in
the liberal mainstream. Now he carries a standard for urban progressives. What
is the nature of his vision?

There is more at stake than his success or failure. New York City has taken its
place in a row of global jewels: Paris, London, Los Angeles and Berlin.
Turbocharged attention to wealth and privilege has become central to how these
cities define their economic advantage.

In this city, inequality has reached appalling levels, and a growing body of
research finds that the chasm could poison economic growth. New York has added
jobs at a fast clip, but most offer low wages and come without the benefits that
are markers of civilized societies. Affordable housing is a wellspring turned
dry.

The de Blasio family embodies middle-class anxiety about the direction of New
York. They lived in a modest Park Slope rowhouse with three bedrooms and a
single bathroom. It is worth north of $1 million. But the children's generation
could have difficulty finding a reasonably priced apartment anywhere near the
city's core.

Can progressives raise taxes, hold down rents and build dikes against the waves
of riches without spooking the wealthy? Can they preserve benefits and wages
that allow pensioners and municipal workers alike to scrape by without emptying
the treasury?

''Politicians see a tremendous market out there now for progressive rhetoric,''
said Elvin Wyly, a geographer at the University of British Columbia and a
chronicler of the gentrification of America's cities. ''But retail presentation
of these politics is not the same as dealing with the fundamental production of
inequality.''

A transition committee for Mr. de Blasio recently considered candidates to run a
meat-and-potatoes city agency, the sort to which most New Yorkers give little
thought unless its services fail.

Which qualifications, the chairman asked, do we desire? ''A progressive,'' a
committee member offered. A progressive, another chirped. Nods and assents. A
progressive, definitely.

Put to the side esoteric questions of whether there can be progressive garbage
collection or firefighting. Defining the word ''progressive'' can prove elusive.

New York progressives share a traditional-left concern with class, labor unions
and higher wage standards. Mr. de Blasio nods to this when he speaks in support
of organizing fast-food and carwash workers.

But progressives, particularly Mr. de Blasio, do not share the old New Left's
penetrating critique of American society. Many distinguish between their
interests and those of municipal labor. And the new mayor is careful to note
that he so far proposes just a single tax increase -- to support universal
prekindergarten.

He was also careful to share postelection laughs with real estate barons.

Lonnie Soury, a former Dinkins administration official sympathetic to the de
Blasio agenda, noted that President Lyndon B. Johnson proposed prekindergarten a
half-century ago. ''It's a measure of how far our politics have drifted to the
right that this now establishes Bill's left-wing bona fides,'' Mr. Soury said.

Progressives are assertive about racial, ethnic and gender diversity. Quite a
few members of the liberal gentry labored in the Bloomberg administration, but
few were Latino or black, and fewer still were working-class. Mr. de Blasio
insists that his administration will look and sound like the city.

It is no accident that he has picked three Hispanic women, all respected
government hands, for high-ranking slots: Lilliam Barrios-Paoli as deputy mayor
for health and human services, Gladys Carrión as child welfare commissioner and
Carmen Fariña as schools chancellor. And he has picked a black former
prosecutor, Zachary W. Carter, as corporation counsel.

''We liberals often define ourselves as an intellectual class,'' said Denise
Scott, executive vice president of programs at the Local Initiatives Support
Corporation, a national community development group. ''But sometimes we tend to
be out of touch with issues that affect the majority of New Yorkers. We talk
about it, but are not always in tune with it.''

Peter Beinart, a liberal essayist for the news website The Daily Beast, rustled
the tea leaves after Mr. de Blasio's victory in the Democratic primary and
divined a glorious future.

''The deeper you look, the stronger the evidence that de Blasio's victory is an
omen of what may become the defining story of America's next political era: the
challenge, to both parties, from the left,'' Mr. Beinart wrote.

The difference, he said, is the influence of the millennial generation (born
between the early 1980s and about 2000), whose left-wing populism gave rise to
Occupy Wall Street. It is, Mr. Beinart wrote, remaking the Democratic Party.

Amid the huzzahs, keep a desultory fact in mind: Fewer than 25 percent of
registered voters cast ballots in the mayoral election, a record poor turnout.
An exit poll by Edison Research found that nearly two-thirds of the voters were
45 or older.

If you overlay the map of 2013 on that of 2009, you see that many tens of
thousands of New Yorkers who supported Mayor Bloomberg voted for Mr. de Blasio.
That so many forded this ideological brook suggests more continuity than
progressives might imagine.

Last, it's instructive to compare the 1989 election of David N. Dinkins, the
city's first black mayor and the inheritor of a liberal populist movement, with
that of Mr. de Blasio, who as a young man worked for Mayor Dinkins.

The Democratic primary in 1989 between Mr. Dinkins and Mayor Edward I. Koch drew
nearly one million voters. The general election, in which Mr. Dinkins beat
Rudolph W. Giuliani, a Republican, drew 1.8 million voters.

New York City's population has grown by one million people since those
elections. Yet 700,000 fewer New Yorkers voted in the general election of 2013.

Mr. de Blasio will lay claim to a mandate for change. But his election offers a
more modest lesson in popular and generational mobilization than his oratory
suggests.

Progressives did not create our torpid democracy. But it's their inheritance.

Again and again, elected officials speak, almost giddily, of their progressive
moment. ''Today we commit to a new progressive direction in New York, '' Mr. de
Blasio said at his inauguration. ''And that same progressive impulse has written
our city's history. It's in our DNA.'' But moments can prove evanescent. It has
been two decades since New York's progressives held the wheel of power. Should
they fumble, the wilderness beckons.

The new mayor's greatest challenge is to handle his putative allies in the
municipal labor movement. The former mayor left behind expired contracts like a
pile of dirty laundry. If Mr. de Blasio miscalculates, settling those contracts
could empty his coffers.

And with that we circle back to the most intriguing question: Who is this new
self-styled progressive mayor?

He proved to be a masterful tactician, enlisting his family in choreographed
commercials. He played political boss, and he has raised expectations. Now,
alone on the stage, he must define himself and that progressive movement.

''Bill de Blasio probably doesn't know precisely who Bill de Blasio is just
yet,'' a long-serving liberal said. ''He's going to find out, and my guess is
that he's got a window of months, not years.''



                              
 Overhaul of Israel's Economy Has Lessons for United States

 

Americans may talk about income inequality, but Israel has done something about
it.

The Israeli parliament, the Knesset, has voted to break up the country's
corporate conglomerates. The move followed mass protests in 2011 over the
concentration of wealth in Israel.

The protesters, numbering in the hundreds of thousands, had focused their ire on
the ''tycoons,'' a handful of Israelis whose holding companies control about 30
percent of the economy. Much of the tycoons' business is done through
''pyramids'' -- a family or individual who owns a public company that in turn
controls many other public companies.

Take the heavily indebted IDB Holding Corporation. At its peak, the company,
headed by Nochi Dankner, was Israel's largest pyramid. It controlled numerous
companies including the airline Israir, one of the country's largest insurance
companies and the Super Sol supermarket chain, while also finding the time to
make a huge investment in Las Vegas real estate on the eve of the financial
crisis.

A number of journalists at the Israeli newspaper Haaretz led the charge,
claiming that Israel's public shareholders often lost out as the tycoons used
them to subsidize their collection of businesses. The tycoons could put down
little money but control vast swathes of the Israeli economy. These pyramids
also used their size to crowd out competitors and take on excessive debt by
lending among their companies. The Israeli economy was viewed by some to be
uncompetitive because the concentration of businesses arguably drove up prices
and decreased competition. In the small Israeli economy, the pyramids were
behemoths that some termed too big to fail.

Added to this witches' brew was a growing bout of income inequality. In 2008,
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development reported that the top
10 percent of Israeli income earners made 13 times more than the bottom 10
percent.

In October 2010, the Israeli government formed a committee of 10 government
regulators known as the concentration committee to examine the issue of the
tycoons' control of the Israeli economy. The committee was advised by Lucian A.
Bebchuk, a Harvard Law professor and occasional contributor to DealBook, who
strongly advocated breaking up the more significant pyramids.

Committees are usually where things go to die, but the 2011 protests along with
Haaretz's sustained campaign kept the cause going. The concentration committee's
report was issued in 2012, and it struck directly at the pyramids, aiming to
overhaul the Israeli economy. The committee recommended the breakup of the
pyramids in the hope that if they were destroyed, prices would come down in the
wake of greater competition, helping the average Israeli and addressing income
inequality.

The committee also recommended the prohibition of significant cross-holdings
between financial and nonfinancial groups. To put this in American terms, this
would mean that General Electric, for example, could no longer have its
financial unit, which holds more than $500 billion in assets. The result would
be that the pyramids could no longer fund themselves, using their access to
cheap financing to give themselves an unfair competitive advantage over their
rivals.

It also ensured that financial institutions did not bring down entire corporate
groups if they imploded.

This was all well and good, but the big question was, what would happen when the
bill was introduced into the Knesset? Indeed, a furious battle broke out as the
big pyramids hired a slew of lobbyists and law firms to persuade lawmakers to
either kill the bill or remove their own pyramid from its strictures. (Sound
familiar?) The lobbyists' attempts to influence legislators got so bad that at
one point in a Knesset committee meeting, the lobbyists were asked to identify
themselves and leave the room. It even got personal, with one lawyer for the
tycoons claiming in an interview with an Israeli paper that Mr. Bebchuk had
''hypnotized the committee.''

Then a funny thing happened. In light of the support of Israeli's regulators and
many Israelis, the conservative government of Benjamin Netanyahu supported the
legislation. The head of Israel's central bank at the time, Stanley Fischer (now
a leading candidate to be vice chairman of the Federal Reserve in the United
States) also supported the final bill.

The case for breaking up the pyramids was also helped by the insolvency of IDB,
which was brought down by bad investments, excessive borrowing and overly
aggressive financing practices. A few weeks ago, a bankruptcy court removed Mr.
Dankner from his controlling position, a move that rocked Israel.

In December, the Knesset passed the bill unanimously.

To be sure, the final bill was not as strict as some wanted. It did not
completely separate financial and nonfinancial companies, a change that Mr.
Fischer opposed in a speech by comparing such a restriction to recreating the
troubled Greek economy. But at the end of the day, a populist movement was able
to show it had the votes, and backed by strong economic arguments, the
politicians couldn't fight. The committee's recommendation to break up the
pyramids and separate significant financial and nonfinancial companies became
law.

In other words, with a single bill and a few big changes in its corporate law,
Israel is looking to overhaul its economy and hopefully reduce income
inequality.

The new law sets up an interesting experiment. In the near term, the winners
will be the lawyers and investment bankers who will now handle a wave of
deal-making as the pyramids break up.

But the real question is whether all it takes is a breakup of a handful
companies to make an economy more competitive and reduce income inequality.

And are there any lessons for the United States?

Certainly, in the wake of Bill de Blasio's election as mayor of New York and
recent speeches by President Obama, income inequality is an increasingly
prominent issue. A large part of this argument is based on the fact that rich
Americans are pulling ahead of their brethren. According to the Congressional
Budget Office, the income of the top 1 percent of Americans rose 275 percent
from 1979 to 2007, but only 18 percent for the bottom 20 percent.

This disparity has been accompanied by a concentration of the financial system
in the hands of a small group of institutions. As of the end of 2013, the five
biggest banks in the United States held 44 percent of the financial assets of
the banking industry, or $6.46 trillion, according to SNL Financial. In 1990,
the five biggest banks held only 9.67 percent.

Inequality may be a problem in the United States, and concentration of assets a
problem in the banking sector, but the American economy is very different from
Israel's. In Israel, the economy is more like South Korea's when its chaebols
dominated or West Germany's in the 1950s when family groups controlled a number
of industries. In the United States, businesses are competitive, and outside the
financial sector, there is vibrant competition. Even in finance, there are good
arguments that a $15 trillion economy needs large banks.

Not only is the economy different, but the political system needed to revamp the
economy is not present in the United States. For example, the Occupy Wall Street
movement appears to have fizzled.

Still, while we await the outcome of Israel's great experiment, it is clear that
where there is the perception that harm is being done and where there is the
will to change, a democracy can overcome even the most powerful corporate
lobbyists. In Israel, at least.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.



                              
 Madison's Privacy Blind Spot

 

IN his opinion last month regarding the constitutionality of the National
Security Agency's phone-data collection program, Judge Richard Leon wrote that
''James Madison, who cautioned us to beware of 'the abridgment of freedom of the
people by gradual and silent encroachments by those in power,' would be
aghast.''

Judge Leon isn't the only legal mind these days to view Madison as a libertarian
icon. Justice Antonin Scalia invoked Madison last spring in his memorable
dissent from a Supreme Court opinion upholding the government's right to collect
DNA swabs from suspects.

Expect to hear a lot more about Madison in the coming year, as the issues
surrounding the N.S.A. move toward what Justice Scalia has said will be a likely
review by the Supreme Court. For that reason, it is important to explore what
Madison does and doesn't offer to this debate.

The apotheosis of Madison as an emblem for opposition to mass surveillance is
welcome. But the reasoning behind his beliefs has been misunderstood. He
believed that the preservation of people's ''different and unequal faculties of
acquiring property'' was ''the first object of government,'' but that a
too-powerful government could undermine that goal. He was, therefore, more
concerned with abuses of legislative and executive power than of unregulated
commercial power.

As a result, the Bill of Rights, which he came to champion, constrains only
government actors, not private ones. It applies to the government, not Google.
Now that Google and AT&T can track us more closely than any N.S.A. agent, it
appears that the Madisonian Constitution may be inadequate to defend our privacy
and dignity in the 21st century.

Soon after Judge Leon issued his ruling, Judge William H. Pauley III, a federal
district judge in New York, reached the opposite conclusion, upholding the
N.S.A. spying program in part by noting that the founders approved of secrecy.

The debate between Judge Leon and Judge Pauley echoes the one between
Federalists and Anti-Federalists about the proper scope of government, one
Madison, a moderate for his time, so effectively straddled.

In the revolutionary period, the galvanizing examples of government overreach
were the ''general warrants'' and ''writs of assistance'' that allowed the
king's agents ''to break open Doors, Chests, Trunks, and other Packages,''
without specifying either the goods to be seized or the houses to be searched.

In a famous attack on such writs in 1761, the lawyer James Otis said, ''It is a
power that places the liberty of every man in the hands of every petty
officer.'' To avoid the dangers of an overreaching central government, in 1777
the Continental Congress created a weak union governed by the Articles of
Confederation.

Madison, a moderate Federalist, lamented the inability of the newly created
government to curb the occasional excesses of economic populism, such as Shays'
Rebellion in western Massachusetts, where debtors attempted to take over the
local government.

Madison and others gathered in Philadelphia in 1787 to create a stronger, but
still limited, federal government. In response to demands by Anti-Federalists
for amendments that protect individual liberty against the government, Madison
introduced the Bill of Rights in 1789.

Unable to foresee the Leviathan national security state, Madison, in his Bill of
Rights, was more concerned with abuses by Congress than the executive branch.
But he had an even greater blind spot for abuses by the private sector, because
he was focused on protecting the property rights of the few against the tyranny
of the many.

For example, economically populist Anti-Federalists, including Thomas Jefferson,
backed an amendment to prohibit Congress from granting monopolies or setting up
''any company with exclusive advantages of commerce.'' Madison, who also
mistrusted monopolies, was less convinced that they should be ''wholly
renounced.'' He responded to Jefferson that ''monopolies are sacrifices of the
many to the few,'' and in America, where the power rested with the people, ''it
is much more to be dreaded that the few will be unnecessarily sacrificed to the
many.''

There is, therefore, a tension in modern libertarian appreciations of Madison.
They exaggerate his opposition to abuse of federal power and ignore his failure
to anticipate abuse of corporate power.

Today, the foes of corporate monopoly power include those on the Tea Party Right
and the Occupy Wall Street left. But on the right, the Madisonian devotion to
property rights, and Jeffersonian suspicion of regulation, are so strong that
the same principled libertarians who oppose N.S.A. data collection shrink from
efforts to regulate Google or AT&T.

In his speech on intelligence reform on Friday, President Obama called on
Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. to develop options for how the bulk
telephone data collection program could continue without the metadata being held
by the government itself. But telecom companies have resisted being the
repository for the data, and an anti-regulatory Congress is unlikely to require
them to do so or to impose meaningful limits on what they can do with the data
they hold.

As a result, Internet service providers and telecoms are constrained neither by
the Constitution nor, in meaningful ways, by federal privacy statutes. And they
are free to engage in just the kind of intrusive surveillance that Judge Leon
insisted was an unreasonable search and seizure when conducted by the N.S.A.

In practice, the neo-Madisonian distinction between surveillance by the
government and surveillance by Google makes little sense. It is true that, as
Judge Pauley concluded, ''People voluntarily surrender personal and seemingly
private information to trans-national corporations which exploit that data for
profit. Few think twice about it.''

But why? Why is it O.K. for AT&T to know about our political, religious and
sexual associations, but not the government?

You might say there is a difference between political and cultural information.
If the government knows you attended a Rand Paul rally, it could punish you by
auditing your tax returns. But if AT&T knows, it might send you an ad for a Tea
Party Tax Day protest.

That distinction is unconvincing. Once data is collected by private parties, the
government will inevitably demand access.

More fundamentally, continuously tracking my location, whether by the government
or AT&T, is an affront to my dignity. When every step I take on- and off-line is
recorded, so an algorithm can predict if I am a potential terrorist or a
potential customer, I am being objectified and stereotyped, rather than treated
as an individual, worthy of equal concern and respect.

Justice Louis Brandeis, the greatest defender of privacy in the 20th century,
recognized this when he equated ''the right to be let alone'' with offenses
against honor and dignity.

But he also lamented that American law, unlike European law, was not
historically concerned with offenses against what the Romans called honor and
what in more modern terms we call dignity. European laws constrain private
companies from sharing and collecting personal data far more than American laws
do, largely because of the legacy of Madisonian ideas of individual freedom,
which focus on liberty rather than dignity.

What Americans may now need is a constitutional amendment to prohibit
unreasonable searches and seizures of our persons and electronic effects,
whether by the government or by private corporations like Google and AT&T.

Perhaps even Madison, who unsuccessfully proposed a preamble to the Constitution
declaring ''that all power is originally rested in, and consequently derived
from the people,'' and that all people have basic natural rights, including
''the enjoyment of life and liberty'' and the right of ''pursuing and obtaining
happiness and safety,'' might have realized that our rights to enjoy liberty,
and to obtain happiness and safety at the same time, are threatened as much by
corporate as government surveillance.

In any event, it is clear that, to keep us secure against the 21st-century
version of the general warrants that so alarmed Madison and the other founders,
America needs a robust debate about amending the Constitution to meet the
exigencies of our electronic age.



                              
 A Folk Revivalist Who Used His Voice to Bring Out a Nation's

 

Pete Seeger sang until his voice wore out, and then he kept on singing, decade
upon decade. Mr. Seeger, who died on Monday at 94, sang for children, folk-music
devotees, union members, civil-rights marchers, antiwar protesters,
environmentalists and everyone else drawn to a repertoire that extended from
ancient ballads to brand-new songs about every cause that moved him. But it
wasn't his own voice he wanted to hear. He wanted everyone to sing along.

Although Mr. Seeger summed up Vietnam-era frustration when he wrote ''Waist Deep
in the Big Muddy'' and created a lasting antiwar parable with ''Where Have All
the Flowers Gone?,'' he wasn't simply a protest singer or propagandist. Like his
father, the musicologist Charles Seeger, and his colleague the ethnomusicologist
Alan Lomax, Pete Seeger was devoted to songs that had been passed on through
generations of people singing and playing together. He was determined -- in an
era when recording was rarer and broadcasting limited -- to get those songs
heard and sung anew, lest they disappear.

That put him at the center of the folk revival of the 1950s and 1960s, in all
its idealism, earnestness and contradictions. Collectors found songs that had
archetypal resonance, sung in unpretty voices and played with regional quirks,
and transcribed them to be learned from sheet music. The folk revival prized
authenticity -- the work song recorded in prison, the fiddle tune recorded on a
back porch -- and then diluted it as the making of amateur collegiate
strum-alongs. Mr. Seeger and his fellow folk revivalists freely adapted old
songs to new occasions, using durable old tunes to carry topical thoughts,
speaking of a ''folk tradition'' of communal authorship and inevitable change.
They would warp a song to preserve it. (In succeeding years, copyright problems
could and did ensue.)

It was an era of purists generating the impure, and, sloppy or saccharine as it
could be, it turned out well. Folk-revival ditties pointed their more dedicated
listeners -- particularly musicians -- back to original versions, extending the
reach of regional styles. The hootenanny movement spurred people to play music
instead of passively consume it, and the noncommercial, do-it-yourself spirit --
though not the sound of banjos and acoustic guitars -- would resound in
punk-rock, which had its own kind of protest songs.

Even more important, the folk revival, with Mr. Seeger as one of its prime
movers, introduced American pop to a different America: the one outside Tin Pan
Alley and Hollywood, where a volunteer gospel choir could sing with more
gumption than a studio chorus, and where a decades-old song about hard times
could speak directly to the present. The folk revival reminded the pop world
that songs could be about something more than romance -- a notion that the
revival's greatest student and transformer, Bob Dylan, would run with. Mr.
Seeger also learned and performed songs from abroad; there were folks there,
too.

Mr. Seeger's discography runs to dozens of albums: topical songs, Mother Goose
rhymes, banjo instruction, African songs, lullabies, blues, Civil War songs,
Spanish Civil War songs and far more. His canon was selective but not exclusive;
he wanted all those songs to get more chances. His cultural mission was
democratic.

His mission was political too, of course. In 2012, Mr. Seeger told an
interviewer on WNYC how he would like to be remembered: ''He made up songs to
try and persuade people to do something,'' not just say something. As the 1940s
began, he recorded songs reflecting the Communist party line; accusations of
Communist Party affiliations got him questioned by the House Un-American
Activities Committee and blacklisted during the McCarthy era. More felicitously,
Mr. Seeger recast traditional songs to rally unions, civil-rights groups,
Vietnam War protesters and environmentalists. Mr. Seeger was a longtime mentor
for topical songwriters. The best of his own songs, like the biblical ''Turn!
Turn! Turn!'' and ''Where Have All the Flowers Gone?'' reach for cycles and
archetypes, not ephemeral complaints.

Pop tastes quickly turned away from the folk revival; the Beatles were more fun.
In the 21st century, folky protest and topical songs have generally been shunted
to the far sidelines. Although Bruce Springsteen has taken songs from Mr.
Seeger's repertory to arenas, social consciousness is now disseminated more
widely through metal and hip-hop. Yet the plink of acoustic instruments is still
a token of sincerity. The banjo has resurfaced in groups like Mumford & Sons,
while fascination with the folk-revival era animates the Coen brothers film
''Inside Llewyn Davis.''

Yet Mr. Seeger wasn't aiming for pop celebrity anyway. He had all the audiences
he needed: at Carnegie Hall or at Barack Obama's inauguration or at a local
coffeehouse, in a high-school classroom or at a union meeting. He had the kindly
demeanor of a favorite uncle and the encouraging tone of a secular preacher as
he picked his banjo and taught another chorus to yet another audience, beaming
as the singalong grew louder and more confident, turning one more group of folks
into a community.



                              
 Futuristic Thrillers

 

ANNIHILATION

By Jeff VanderMeer

Farrar, Straus & Giroux, paper, $13.

A clandestine government agency called the Southern Reach has sent 11 mostly
failed expeditions into Area X, where an environmental catastrophe has created a
nasty new ecosystem that may be encroaching on our own familiar world. The
latest group sent to explore the region is composed of four women known only by
their disciplines: surveyor, anthropologist, psychologist and biologist. Acting
as narrator, the biologist takes us along as they make their way down a tunnel
whose walls bear enigmatic and frightening messages that sound like Cormac
McCarthy at his most biblical. Although her companions are gradually eliminated,
the intrepid biologist presses on alone, finally reaching a lighthouse that
holds the remains of all those earlier expeditions. Fear-fed violence ensues,
and as required in this sort of novel, the biologist must foolishly descend even
farther into the tunnel's depths to confront a monster, the Crawler, so protean
she can't describe it -- though at times its face seems to resemble a photo
she's seen of the lighthouse keeper.

No spoiler alert is needed because we know the narrator escapes to tell the
tale, which is ponderously plotted, often abstract in style and not very scary,
possibly because ''Annihilation'' is the first book of a projected trilogy but
probably because the novel is really about itself and its genre, with a distinct
debt to Poe's strange nautical adventure, ''The Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym
of Nantucket.''

Area X stands for the domain of fantastic fiction. The biologist is the reader.
The Crawler is the subconscious creative process. The lighthouse keeper
symbolizes outward communication and puts a human face on the Crawler. And, sure
enough, the lighthouse keeper does bear a striking resemblance to the author
picture on the back cover. Details from the biologist's past -- she was a loner
who would rather observe a tide pool than participate in her marriage -- fill
out the metafictional allegory, but without convincingly establishing the
biologist's motivations for her risky behavior, motivations that might have made
''Annihilation'' not just intriguing but affecting.

SHOVEL READY

By Adam Sternbergh

Crown, $24.

After a dirty bomb renders Times Square radioactive, the upper classes in
Manhattan retreat to the heights of their luxury buildings and slumber in
high-tech virtual reality ''beds.'' Meanwhile, the lower classes scurry in from
the outer boroughs to monitor the dreamers' tubes and change their
''feed-bags.'' And the middle class? They've moved to New Jersey. Having lost
his wife in the terrorist attack, a former garbage collector who calls himself
Spademan takes the elites' abdication personally. Becoming a contract killer, he
specializes in eliminating those who have forsaken the city streets. But he's a
killer with principles -- and first on that list is to avoid murdering children.
So when he's told that a target named Persephone is pregnant by her wealthy
evangelist father, Spademan decides to save her, which leads him into a
complicated hacker plot involving the liberation of captives from a virtual
paradise.

With this first novel, Sternbergh, an editor at The New York Times Magazine, has
entered William Gibson territory, but the future in ''Shovel Ready'' lacks the
gritty texture -- the inventive worldliness -- of Gibson's cybernoirs. The novel
does, however, have its moments as a commentary on economic inequality and
cultural devolution. (A tent city in Central Park is much larger than Occupy
Wall Street's downtown warren. At the public library on Fifth Avenue, study
tables have been replaced by per-hour virtual reality beds.)

Though Spademan's weapon of choice is a box-cutter, he calls himself a bullet
and narrates in bullet-point bursts -- one-word fragments, one-line sentences,
one-sentence paragraphs, quick-hitting chapters. At least half the text is
presented as staccato dialogue, as if the author assumed a leap straight to the
movies, with a director filling in the setting and actors fleshing out the
characters. Perhaps Spademan's primer prose is meant to suggest that the
''Incremental Apocalypse'' caused writers to abandon Brooklyn, leaving this hit
man to record society's dereliction. Gertrude Stein told a tough guy named
Hemingway that ''remarks are not literature.'' Neither are bullets. Maybe soon,
but not yet.

LIGHTHOUSE ISLAND

By Paulette Jiles

Morrow/HarperCollins, $26.99.

Nadia Stepan, the plucky protagonist of Jiles's latest novel, likes ''stories in
which the characters' actions and thoughts were described and the plot proceeded
with a happy continuity.'' Luckily Nadia's happens to be just such a story,
though its continuity is more challenging than happy as she struggles across the
new American Dust Bowl toward a rumored haven on the Pacific. It's 2198, and the
cities of the Midwest have lost their names, merged into one continuous
''megapolis.'' Aquifers have been pumped out, rain is rare, and water is scarce
everywhere. Government agencies that seem to be modeled on old Soviet
bureaucracies control rationing, housing, jobs and the news. Executions are
broadcast live to distract the country's citizens, who ''are all prisoners of
thirst.''

Abandoned as a young girl by her parents, left alone with books in adolescence,
Nadia learns about better times by reading old novels. Broke, rebellious and
desperate by the time she reaches her 20s, she sets out on foot to a seaside
retreat for the wealthy that's been advertised on television. To help her along,
Jiles provides a sidekick in a wheelchair -- a student of old maps, who becomes
Nadia's guide for adventures that recall those of Steinbeck's Joads, with
troubles reminiscent of the Old Testament's Job.

Although the novel's ''Drought Age'' sounds a serious Ancient Mariner warning,
''Lighthouse Island'' initially engages readers as a literary lark, with Nadia
taking turns playing Alice exploring dry land, Huck lying his way out of tight
spots and Isabel Archer searching for the fiction-based ideal. When life becomes
too oppressive, Nadia listens to readings from classic authors on an
anachronistic ''Big Radio.'' Yet all her walking and hitchhiking can be slow
going, and about halfway to the Great Northwest her predicaments become
predictable, her ever-ready cleverness implausible. Jiles's inventive futurism
and rollicking wit gradually flag as the plot plods along to an ending that
gives Nadia the ''happy continuity'' the author has reserved for her all along.



                              
 All Work and No Payoff

 

Like other 20-somethings seeking a career foothold, Andrew Lang, a graduate of
Penn State, took an internship at an upstart Beverly Hills production company at
age 29 as a way of breaking into movie production. It didn't pay, but he hoped
the exposure would open doors.

When that internship proved to be a dead end, Mr. Lang went to work at a second
production company, again as an unpaid intern. When that went nowhere, he left
for another, doing whatever was asked, like delivering bottles of wine to 27
offices before Christmas. But that company, too, could not afford to hire him,
even part time.

A year later, Mr. Lang is on his fourth internship, this time for a company that
produces reality TV shows. While this internship at least pays him (he makes $10
an hour, with few perks), Mr. Lang feels no closer to a real job and worries
about being an intern forever. ''No one hires interns,'' said Mr. Lang, who sees
himself as part of a ''revolving class of people'' who can't break free of the
intern cycle. ''Is this any way to live?''

The intern glass ceiling isn't limited to Hollywood. Tenneh Ogbemudia, 23, who
aspires to be a record executive, has had four internships at various New York
media companies, including Source magazine and Universal Music Group.

''In any given month, I'd say I apply to at least 300 full-time jobs,'' she
said, noting these attempts were to no avail. ''On the other hand, I can apply
to one or two internship positions a month and get a call back from both.''

Call them members of the permanent intern underclass: educated members of the
millennial generation who are locked out of the traditional career ladder and
are having to settle for two, three and sometimes more internships after
graduating college, all with no end in sight.

Like an army of worker ants, they are a subculture with a distinct identity,
banding together in Occupy Wall Street-inspired groups and, lately, creating
their own blogs, YouTube channels, networking groups and even a magazine that
captures life inside the so-called Intern Nation.

It is a young, rudderless community that is still trying to define itself. ''I'm
just wondering at what point how many internships is too many,'' said Lea, who
received a master's degree from Parsons, the New School for Design two years ago
and aspires to work as a magazine art director. (She was allowed to use only her
first name to avoid jeopardizing a current job application.) So far, her résumé
has been limited to three internships -- planning events for teenagers at the
Walters Art Museum in Baltimore, compiling news clippings for a public relations
agency in New York, and being the ''fetch-the-coffee girl'' at an art gallery.

While feeling trapped inside what she calls a ''never-ending intern life,'' Lea
satisfies her creative impulses by editing a food and drinks column at a
lifestyle blog, selling coral fan necklaces on Etsy, and starting a charity to
teach children about ''responsible'' street art. She wonders if she should
surrender to a fourth internship or settle for an office job outside her chosen
field.

''I'm 26 right now,'' she said. ''I know that everyone has their own pace, but I
don't really feel like a real adult right now.''

There was a time not long ago when internships were reserved for college
students. But that era is passing, with loosely defined internships -- some
paying a small stipend, some nothing -- replacing traditional entry-level jobs
for many fresh out of college.

The moribund economy is, without question, a primary factor behind the shift.
Even though the employment picture has brightened since the depths of the Great
Recession, few would describe it as sunny. The general unemployment rate inched
down to 6.6 percent last month, but the jobless rate for college graduates age
20 to 24 stood at 8 percent in 2013, compared with 5.1 percent in 2007,
according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.

No one tracks how many college graduates take internships, but employment
experts and intern advocates say the number has risen substantially in recent
years. ''The postgraduate internship has exploded,'' said Ross Perlin, author of
the book ''Intern Nation: How to Earn Nothing and Learn Little in the Brave New
Economy.'' ''This was something that became a real mainstream experience after
the recession began.''

But the poor job market is not the only reason that recent graduates feel stuck
in internships. Millennials, it is often said, want more than just a paycheck;
they crave meaningful and fulfilling careers, maybe even a chance to change the
world.

That may explain why millennials like Breanne Thomas, 24, an aspiring
entrepreneur in Brooklyn, has bounced from internship to internship. Unlike her
parents' generation, it is not enough to find a steady job; she wants to follow
the path of Mark Zuckerberg, or at least to get in on the ground floor of the
next Facebook, the next Twitter.

'' 'Success' doesn't always mean financial success, but doing something you're
passionate about,'' said Ms. Thomas, who graduated with two bachelor's degrees
from the University of Oregon in 2012. ''It's kind of my goal one day to have my
own company, to be part of something that is going to do something great. That's
why I'm in tech.''

That kind of ambition comes with a price, however. Competition for salaried
high-tech jobs is fierce, so Ms. Thomas has had to settle for internships:
three, so far, including at a five-person food-delivery start-up, a beauty
products site and, currently, a well-known social-networking app that she asked
not to name.

While the idea of slaving away in two, three or four quasi jobs without a clear
path for advancement may seem unimaginable to an older generation, those in
their 20s seem to respond to their jobless fate with a collective shrug. To
them, internships are the new normal. ''For some people, being an accountant,
taking a safe route, is perfectly fine, but that's not where my values lie,''
Ms. Thomas said.

This is especially true in more creative fields, whether it is filmmaking or
publishing. ''It's fashion,'' said Dawn Joyce, 24, when asked why she has gone
through four internships since 2010. Those include unpaid stints at a major
fashion magazine, where she mingled with Zooey Deschanel and Julianne Moore at
photo shoots, and at a public relations firm, where she held front-row seats for
late-arriving celebrities like Selena Gomez. ''I consider myself to be pretty
jaded already.''

''I have seen a lot of people beside me quit,'' Ms. Joyce added. ''It's sort of
like, 'Let's see who lasts the longest.' ''

As their ranks have swelled, interns are beginning to see themselves as part of
a special class, albeit one with few privileges and perks. They share their own
brand of gallows humor, their own pride of purpose and their own battle-hardened
worldview tinged with a risk-taker's optimism.

This intern-centric culture has spawned numerous blogs, a place at the multiplex
(think of ''The Internship,'' from last year, with Owen Wilson and Vince Vaughn
playing a pair of 40-something Google interns) and even its own magazine.

Intern magazine, which came out in October, grew out of the frustrations of Alec
Dudson, 29, a former intern who toiled in London's publishing industry. ''I was
working 30 hours a week at odd jobs, on top of 40 hours a week at internships,
and I knew there wasn't a job at the end of it,'' said Mr. Dudson, who slept on
friends' sofas to help make ends meet. ''I needed to do something of my own.''

That something turned out to be a glossy, biannual magazine that is geared for
those with a design and creative bent, and looks like a fashion bible for the
Black Book crowd. The feature articles provide tips and inspiration for the
faceless drones who keep the style industries humming, including a first-person
piece by a Spanish photographer who cut his teeth by interning for Richard Kern
in New York.

''There is a culture of internships, a situation whereby it is completely normal
for young people to think that working unpaid is just part of the process,'' Mr.
Dudson said. ''Nobody even questions it. I wasn't the only one confused about
where the boundaries lie, how much of this stuff do you have to do before
someone takes you seriously.''

These days, there are no shortages of places, online and off, for interns to
gather and commiserate. Groups like FindSpark, a New York jobs network for
recent graduates, offer meetups and mixers with themes like ''Find and Follow
Your Passion'' and ''Your Personal Brand'' that draw hundreds. Interns who tire
of glad-handing their way through mixers with frozen smiles often vent their
frustrations on anonymous blogs like Fashion Intern Problems, the short-lived
Life of an Investment Banking Summer Slave and, for Hollywood's version of Roman
galley slaves, Anonymous Production Assistant Blog and Intern-Anonymous.

''I worked 32 hours a week and was treated like a minion,'' one commenter wrote
on Intern-Anonymous. ''I was then fired because they were afraid I would leak
information.''

Lately, however, long-suffering interns are starting to do more than complain.
They point to the Labor Department's six criteria for legal internships, which
stipulate that companies that do not pay interns must provide vocational
education and refrain from substituting interns for paid employees, among
others. Those rules have been highly open to interpretation and their
enforcement is sporadic.

In a much-publicized lawsuit in 2011, two unpaid interns sued the filmmakers of
''Black Swan'' alleging a violation of federal and New York State minimum wage
laws. Last June, a federal judge in New York ruled in favor of the interns. (The
case is on appeal.)

''It's an institutionalized form of wage theft,'' said Eric Glatt, 44, one of
the plaintiffs who has since helped form an Occupy-inspired group called Intern
Labor Rights. Last year, the group distributed fake swag bags and buttons that
read ''Pay Your Interns'' outside fashion shows in New York.

That ruling opened the floodgates to some 30 other lawsuits against companies
like Warner Music Group, Elite Model Management and, perhaps most notably, Condé
Nast. In that suit, one plaintiff, Lauren Ballinger, who interned at W while
still in college, conjured visions of ''The Devil Wears Prada'' with her stories
of toiling away on menial tasks like organizing jewelry for 12-hour shifts for a
stipend that she claimed broke down to $1 an hour.

While the plaintiffs in the Condé Nast suit had been students at the time of
their internships, such lawsuits have sent a chill through the Intern Industrial
Complex, affecting undergraduates and postgraduates alike as companies scramble
to adjust to the new legal landscape.

Some, like NBC Universal, have responded by paying interns. Other former intern
magnets are redefining the position (Gawker Media now calls its entry-level
workers ''editorial fellows'').

In some cases, however, the intern revolt may be backfiring.

Last October, Condé Nast announced that it was ending the internship programs
within its 25 magazines, which means that 20-something aspiring magazine editors
will have one less place to get a toehold for their ''meaningful'' careers.

''Can you hear it?'' one commenter wrote on a WWD article about the ending of
internships. ''It's my dream of a Vogue internship going straight out the
window.''



                              
 Godot Arrives in Sarajevo

 

SARAJEVO, Bosnia and Herzegovina -- A BOY, his voice heavy with embarrassment
and regret, was performing Samuel Beckett in Serbo-Croatian. ''Mr. Godot,'' he
said, ''told me to tell you that he won't come this evening, but surely
tomorrow.''

It was 1993 in Sarajevo. Outside, the only sounds came from a United Nations
vehicle rolling by and, in the distance, a mortar shell exploding.

The staging of the play, ''Waiting for Godot,'' was managed by Susan Sontag, and
her choice was apt: Despite the United Nations presence, the war-torn country
felt as if it was waiting for a resolution that would never arrive.

Almost 20 years later, Bosnia and Herzegovina is once more torn by strife, but
this time it is different. Frustrated with corruption, political inaction,
unpaid wages and youth unemployment around 60 percent, workers started a protest
in the northern town of Tuzla on Feb. 4. Within days, the unrest had spread
nationwide. By the time I arrived in Sarajevo a week later, scores of government
buildings had been set on fire.

Around the country, protesters are not just occupying streets and public squares
but organizing plenums to create alternative governments. In Sarajevo, one such
assembly was taking place at the youth center, which before the wars of the
1990s was one of the most popular Western-style clubs in Yugoslavia. During the
war it was hit by artillery shells and caught fire.

Now I watched as more than 1,000 people -- mothers without a job, former
soldiers, professors, students, desperate unpaid workers -- gathered here to
discuss the future of the country.

In the best tradition of direct democracy, after hours of discussion, the
participants agreed to set up a completely new government, to curtail the
salaries and benefits of politicians, and rein in the privatization process,
which many in this country consider hopelessly corrupt.

The same day, the plenum in Tuzla forced the local government to fulfill one of
its demands: eliminating the practice of paying ''white bread,'' or salaries of
politicians after they leave office -- savings of some $700,000 a year, enough
to cover about 130 average annual pensions.

Aside from these small but important victories, the people's assemblies have
succeeded in what the international community and the awkward, tripartite
government it imposed failed to do over the last 20 years -- namely, overcoming
the rifts among the country's Croats, Serbs and Bosnians that have haunted it
since the end of the war.

During the first day of protests in Sarajevo, one young man, among 50 others,
had been pushed into the river by the police. A few days later, I watched as he
appeared with a broken leg in front of the plenum. ''I am a Catholic, I am a
Jew, I am a Muslim, I am all the citizens of this country,'' he said.

Another man added: ''If I am a Muslim, and he is a Serb or a Croat, if we are
hungry, aren't we brothers? We are at least brothers-in-stomach.'' Then he
muttered, ''I am not smart, but I just wanted to say this.'' From the other
corner of the fully packed hall, someone replied: ''If you're here, you're
smart!''

As Andrej Nikolaidis, a Sarajevo-born writer who escaped the city while it was
under siege by Serbian forces in the early 1990s, said, ''The citizens of Bosnia
and Herzegovina are these days greater Europeans than the Europeans themselves,
they are now the ones who are serious about European ideals, while the E.U.
created a museum of abandoned ideals.''

These plenums are attracting ever more people and are now part of the daily
routine. During the day people protest in the streets, and afterward they gather
in the assemblies. Instead of waiting for Godot -- for Ms. Sontag, it was the
''international community'' that was supposed to stop the war; today it is the
European Union, which is supposed to bring an end to economic despair -- they
have taken the future into their own hands.

But unlike the 1990s, when international action was the only solution, today the
people are uninterested in European Union intervention. When Valentin Inzko, the
union's high representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina, said the unrest might
require international troops to quell it, protesters lashed out at him, too.

Of course, the cynics among us could pose the legitimate question: What happened
after the Arab Spring? What happened after Occupy Wall Street? And the answer
might sound disappointing for anyone hoping to see something come of these new
protests: In Egypt, we had first a stronger Muslim Brotherhood, and then
military rule again; in the United States we find the same financial system
again. So why would Bosnia and Herzegovina be different?

But this time, protesters are up against not a military dictatorship or a
financial hegemon, but an ill-conceived, poorly run government that few people,
in or out of it, believe in. And it would be wrong to say that the protesters
are new to this game. The people of Bosnia and Herzegovina have been struggling,
in one way or another, for decades to construct a better country for themselves.
In that sense, the best answer we might give, for now, also comes from Samuel
Beckett: Try again, fail again, fail better.



                              
 'Goldman' Tattletale Exposed (No, He Wasn't in the Elevator)

 

A three-year parlor game has been taking place on Wall Street to identify the
Goldman Sachs employee behind a Twitter account that purports to reveal the
uncensored comments overheard in the firm's elevators.

The Twitter account, @GSElevator, reports overheard remarks like, ''I never give
money to homeless people. I can't reward failure in good conscience,'' and
''Groupon...Food stamps for the middle class.''

The Twitter account, which has an audience of more than 600,000 followers, has
been the subject of an internal inquiry at Goldman to find the rogue employee.
The tweets, often laced with insider references to deals in the news, appeal to
both Wall Street bankers and outsiders who mock the industry. Late last month,
the writer sold a book about Wall Street culture based on the tweets for a
six-figure sum.

There is a good reason Goldman Sachs has been unable to uncover its
Twitter-happy employee: He doesn't work at the firm. And he never did.

The author is a 34-year-old former bond executive who lives in Texas. His name
is John LeFevre.

He had tried to remain anonymous, scrubbing the Internet of mentions of his name
and pictures of himself on all but a handful of sites. Some people had already
speculated that @GSElevator was not hanging around the halls of Goldman.

The ability of people like Mr. LeFevre to create anonymous Twitter accounts
underscores concerns about the veracity of what is published and the identity of
authors. It also raises questions about whether publishers are blurring the line
between real life and the made-up kind.

Upon being contacted late last week after several weeks of reporting uncovered
his identity, he confirmed his alter ego. ''Frankly, I'm surprised it has taken
this long,'' he said by phone. ''I knew this day would come.''

Mr. LeFevre, who worked for Citigroup for seven years, said the Twitter account
started as ''a joke to entertain myself.''

He quickly interrupted the inevitable line of questioning about how he had never
worked at Goldman and appeared to be an impostor. ''To pre-empt what you're
about to say, legally speaking,'' he said, ''I was never explicitly an employee
of the firm.''

Mr. LeFevre was offered a job as head of debt syndicate in Asia at Goldman's
Hong Kong office in August 2010, but the offer was later revoked, according to
people at the firm who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not
authorized to discuss the matter. Mr. LeFevre said his previous employer
contended that he was bound by a noncompete agreement and ''things turned nasty
with my old boss and he threatened a lawsuit against me and Goldman.''

By Mr. LeFevre's own account of his experience with Goldman: ''My contract was
never rescinded. We cordially agreed to part ways to avoid a public mess. I
don't know how much I can talk about it. It wasn't acrimonious.''

When pressed about whether he had implicitly misrepresented himself as a Goldman
employee, he said he deliberately never said in any of his tweets that he worked
for the firm. ''This was never about me as a person,'' he said. ''It wasn't
about a firm. The stories aren't Goldman Sachs in particular. It was about the
culture in general.''

A Goldman spokesman, after being told that @GSElevator had been unmasked, said
in a statement, ''We are pleased to report that the official ban on talking in
elevators will be lifted effective immediately.''

The fact that Mr. LeFevre was not a Goldman employee did not appear to dissuade
his publisher, Touchstone, an imprint of Simon & Schuster, which said it had not
been misled.

''He's been pretty straight with us the entire time, so this is not a
surprise,'' said the book's editor, Matthew Benjamin, who bought the book
without ever meeting Mr. LeFevre. ''That you're writing about him speaks to the
interest he's generated. We always expected his identity to be revealed at some
point.''

Mr. LeFevre's agent, Byrd Leavell, said: ''What matters is that every story in
the book is true. John's material he delivered is hilarious. The book isn't
going to live or die on whether he worked at Goldman Sachs for two months or
not.''

Mr. LeFevre, who started at Citigroup in New York in 2001 after graduating from
Babson College before moving with the firm to London and then Hong Kong, said
that he was inspired to start the Twitter account in the fall of 2011. ''I was
sitting around with a friend at a bar,'' he said.

At the time, an account called @CondeElevator had sprung up, supposedly
chronicling the goings-on in the elevator of the media company Condé Nast. ''I
thought, 'This is ridiculous that people are infatuated with Condé Nast. If they
only saw the elitist, sexist and out-of-touch things bankers say.' People had no
idea what it is really like.''

He said he chose to name his account after Goldman Sachs because ''it was
commercial.'' In an email, Mr. LeFevre added, Goldman ''has more love/hate Main
Street appeal.'' At the time, the Occupy Wall Street movement was in full swing.
He said he was also struck by some of the lines, comical to him, he heard from
people at Goldman when he first received a job offer. ''Even socializing with
them -- going to bars and having guys buy girls drinks and then throw out a line
like, 'Don't worry ladies, these drinks are on Goldman Sachs.' ''

Mr. LeFvre, who left Citigroup in 2008 and began to work at a start-up boutique
firm in 2009 in Hong Kong, insisted that many of the exchanges he published on
Twitter were true: ''I've been collecting these stories for years.''

He said his intent was neither to mock nor glamorize Wall Street. ''I do not
have an agenda to paint the people or this culture one way or the other,'' he
said, adding that he was ''always a cynical banker'' when he worked on Wall
Street but ''I loved it. We did a lot of crazy stuff. It's not like I had a
great epiphany along the way.''

Still, he said that working on Wall Street was an eye-opener. ''I went into
investment banking and I saw a group of people that aren't as impressive as I
thought they were -- or as impressive as they thought they were. They defined
themselves as human beings by their jobs.''

His Twitter feed has become red meat for industry critics, something Mr. LeFevre
said was initially unintentional but later something he tried to stoke. ''A lot
of times I pander, I'll be honest with you. I pander for retweets,'' he said,
referring to users blasting copies of a tweet to their own followers,
multiplying its reach.

He said his Twitter account had evolved over the last few years: ''Early on, I
tweeted more about specific people or deals, inside jokes/commentary, and even a
few ad hominem attacks. That gave me a certain validation and credibility. But
over time, the tweets have been increasingly styled to have a bit more
commercial appeal.

''I don't consider it selling out or pandering to a lower common denominator; I
think of it more as adapting to what the widest possible audience of people
responds favorably to.''

Mr. LeFevre, who refused to disclose his location in Texas, started worrying
several months ago that his identity would be revealed. He received some emails
from friends who had guessed it was him. He also noticed that some Goldman Sachs
employees had viewed his LinkedIn profile page; he later removed it.

Now that he has been outed, he said, ''it's something that can be embraced. And
I certainly don't have anything to hide.''

A sampling of musings from GSElevator's Twitter account:

#1: I just want to be rich enough to not be motivated by money.-- GS Elevator
Gossip (@GSElevator) 14 Dec 13

#1: Only Neanderthals resort to violence. I prefer crushing one's spirit, hope,
or ego.-- GS Elevator Gossip (@GSElevator) 25 Dec 13

#1: Some chick asked me what I would do with 10 million bucks. I told her I'd
wonder where the rest of my money went.-- GS Elevator Gossip (@GSElevator) 12
Nov 13

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.



                              
 'Have We Unleashed a Monster?'

 

You recently began something called Vice News. How is it different from what
Vice already does? Through YouTube, we learned that our audience wants more
news. So news is going to be its own offering. It's a new site with long-form
video, short-form video, shows on the environment, economics, conflict.

Vice was a hip magazine, and now it's a media company that works directly with
corporations, which is sort of necessarily unhip. When we started the magazine,
we had to have one page of ads for every page of content. That was our rule. We
learned very early on you can't be precious about that, because then you don't
have a thing. Partnering with a brand is just a smarter way of doing it.

You've said that objective news is impossible because no one is really
objective. I grew up in Canada, and I live in New York. When I go to cover
something in Afghanistan or in Iraq, I don't know all the facts. I don't know
both sides of the story. It's impossible to.

But don't you think that's why journalism has strict rules -- precisely because
no one can be objective? I understand it, and people can try to do that, for
sure. I don't believe in it myself. It's fake, so we don't do it. Then the
journalism establishment says, ''Unless you do news the way we do it, it's not
news.'' I think that's stupid.

How is Vice going to cover, say, monetary policy? That's a good question. We're
not going to cover monetary policy. For us, we embed with Occupy Wall Street,
the communists, the young people.

What do you think of the criticism of the first season of ''Vice'' on HBO? The
criticism I thought was funny was about us taking Dennis Rodman to North Korea.
They were damning the show before they had seen it, calling us stunt
journalists. Meanwhile, the BBC tried to sneak into North Korea using students
as cover.

Before the first season aired, you told Charlie Rose that you had an interview
with Kim Jong-un, but it never materialized. What happened? We did interview
him, but we didn't get it on camera. We had a three-hour dinner with the guy,
but we weren't allowed to bring anything in. You couldn't bring keys in, you
couldn't bring credit cards. We were supposed to get the footage from the North
Korean television agency, but they didn't give it to us.

Rodman has since gone back to North Korea without Vice. Do you feel as if you've
unleashed a monster? Rodman went for three days. We were there for 10 days to
shoot. Have we unleashed a monster? Probably. The guy has a well-documented
alcohol problem, and I hope he gets better. I mean, we knew that they loved the
Bulls, but most of the Bulls didn't want to go.

Did you ask Michael Jordan or Scottie Pippen? Yeah, Jordan and Pippen. They said
no.

You believe that young people worldwide are disenfranchised. Do you think
popular uprisings will fix things? No. I'm actually worried, because I believe
that it's going to get worse. Look, economic disparity is bad. But we've already
tried having governments redistribute wealth. We tried it in Russia and China to
disastrous effect.

News Corp. bought a 5 percent stake in Vice, and now James Murdoch is on the
board. Why did you sell to them? I've said that I want to be the next MTV, the
next CNN, the next ESPN. Cue everyone rolling their eyes. MTV went to Viacom,
ESPN went to Disney and Hearst, CNN went to Time Warner. Why? Because to build a
global media brand, it's almost impossible to do it alone. James has been
involved in one of the largest media companies in the world since he was in
short pants.

Do you ever fear that Vice will become legacy media itself? It's our time now.
Then, I don't know, it'll be holograms next, and some kid will come up and eat
our lunch.

INTERVIEW HAS BEEN CONDENSED AND EDITED.



                              
 Kronos Quartet's 40-Year Adventure

 

''That sounded massively unmassive,'' the violinist David Harrington said during
a recent rehearsal of Nico Muhly's ''Diacritical Marks'' with the Pannonia
Quartet, gesturing energetically to encourage a ponytailed teenager in pink
sneakers to create a more dramatic sound on her violin.

The Pannonia string ensemble is a member of the Face the Music program, in which
young players are coached in scores written by living composers. Mr.
Harrington's unbridled enthusiasm for mentoring the younger generation also
continues to propel the Kronos Quartet -- the groundbreaking ensemble he founded
in 1973 -- into its fifth decade. Kronos has added some 800 new works and
arrangements to the repertory, a few of which will be performed at its 40th
anniversary concert at Carnegie Hall on Friday.

The ensemble -- whose other members are the violinist John Sherba, the violist
Hank Dutt and the cellist Sunny Yang -- has revolutionized the approach to
string quartet repertory, performing experimental, jazz and tango (among other
genres) and working with a broad range of musicians from disparate cultures.

The quartet, based in San Francisco, has released 57 albums and sold more than
2.5 million recordings. Its adventurous, undecorous approach to programming and
cross-cultural collaborations planted the seed for a new generation of
innovative string quartets like Ethel, the JACK Quartet and Brooklyn Rider to
thrive, as well as inspired individual artists to reimagine musical parameters.

The Pannonia Quartet, the Brooklyn Youth Chorus and the brilliant pipa player Wu
Man are among those who will perform with Kronos on the Carnegie lineup, a
typically eclectic program of works by living composers including Terry Riley,
Bryce Dessner, Laurie Anderson and Jherek Bischoff.

Ms. Wu, a tireless evangelist for her instrument in the West, will join Kronos
at the concert for the New York premiere of an arrangement of Philip Glass's
''Orion: China.'' She had never heard of the ensemble when it contacted her in
1992, shortly after she moved to New York from China.

As a student playing traditional music, she said, ''I never thought about
stepping out from my own box, or that a pipa could be played with a Western
string quartet. That's amazing. They opened my musical world. They have been a
huge influence.''

Nicholas Cords, the violist for Brooklyn Rider, said: ''The influence of the
Kronos Quartet has been felt by virtually any quartet operating today, even
those who are not doing stuff on the fringe. They have had a huge role in
generating interest in what a string quartet can do.''

Kronos's entrepreneurial model of creating repertory and ''defining a quartet
based around a passion,'' he added, inspired the growth of his own ensemble.

Mr. Harrington was inspired to found Kronos after hearing George Crumb's ''Black
Angels,'' a theatrical, anti-Vietnam War piece for strings and percussion that
uses unconventional bowing techniques and electronic effects. During its early
days, Kronos, which has undergone several personnel changes, performed Haydn and
Mozart alongside new music. By the late 1970s, the group focused on contemporary
music and began a series of longstanding collaborations with composers including
Mr. Riley and Mr. Glass.

Kronos concerts sometimes feature a political component, like a video of the
Arab Spring protests and scenes from Occupy Wall Street. Mr. Harrington still
retains the idealism that has always been a hallmark of his programming and
ideas.

''There are so many problems to solve, and we need the energy to solve them,''
he said during a recent interview in a cafe in Midtown. ''Music is a great
source of propulsion and inspiration. I said many years ago I hoped to find a
way of creating bulletproof music. Does Kronos have to take on the N.R.A.? Maybe
so.'' He laughed as he added, ''I've not lost my appetite for ensuring that, of
all the string quartets in the world, I'm intending to have the largest F.B.I.
file.''

''If we have had a war somewhere, I need to know more about the music, whether
it's Afghanistan, Iraq or Vietnam,'' he said. ''If we are threatening a war, I'm
even more curious.''

The ''Kronos Explorer Series'' boxed set and an album called ''A Thousand
Thoughts'' (both available from Nonesuch on April 8) celebrate the ensemble's
international adventures. The boxed set includes five albums featuring music and
musicians from different regions, including ''Pieces of Africa''; ''Night
Prayers,'' which focuses on countries in the former Soviet Union; and ''Nuevo,''
an examination of Mexican genres from rock to mariachi.

The single album includes music from 14 countries (10 works are being released
for the first time here) and features performances by the four cellists who have
been in Kronos over the last 36 years: Joan Jeanrenaud (1978-99), Jennifer Culp
(1999-2005), Jeffrey Zeigler (2005-13) and Ms. Yang (since 2013).

Ms. Yang, 29, first heard the group perform as a teenager and said she remembers
leaving the concert hall ''thinking anything is possible.'' Kronos's
unconventional approach and theatrical components, however, haven't always been
an instant hit with all listeners.

In 1987, John Rockwell wrote in The New York Times that ''to this taste -- and
to the taste of many others, most of them no doubt huddling in conservative
confusion along the East Coast, far removed from West Coast hipness -- this
theatricality has seemed more silly than stylish.'' But, he added in his review
of a summer concert by Kronos featuring MTV-style videos in Purchase, N.Y., the
''venture was a qualified success.''

Critics have also observed throughout the decades that Kronos performances
sometimes lack the virtuosity and polish of other ensembles, although technical
deficiencies are usually countered by the spirit and energy of their
idiosyncratic concerts.

With more than 800 premieres by the quartet so far, ''the first performance is
never the best performance,'' Mr. Harrington said. ''In our case, it might be
one of the most exciting performances, and you wonder, 'Can we get through it?'
There is that sense of danger, which is addictive. I love that, wondering how it
is going to go.''

Kronos is backed by the Kronos Performing Arts Organization, which helps
facilitate the varied facets of the ensemble's commissioning and outreach work.
In addition to teaching elementary, junior high and high school musicians in the
Face the Music program, Kronos fosters young composers by commissioning scores
via its Under 30 Project, whose recent laureates have included Alexandra du Bois
and Dan Visconti.

''We are in a golden age,'' Mr. Harrington said. ''It's easy to lose track of
that with all the violence and wars and environmental devastation. I want our
work to be mindful of the big pressing issues but also to celebrate the humanity
and creativity that exist right now.

''You heard some of it yesterday with those young people,'' he added, referring
to the rehearsal with the Pannonia Quartet at the Martin Luther King Jr.
building near Lincoln Center.

Javen Lara, a sophomore at the Fiorello H. La Guardia High School of Music & Art
and Performing Arts in Manhattan and the violist of the Pannonia Quartet,
described studying with Mr. Harrington as different from most master classes.
''He will give different ways of helping you in your practice and fixing
technique, and they may be pretty bizarre ways, like relaxing your whole body,''
she said. ''He'd say, 'Loosen up your arms,' and that would fix the problem.''

Mr. Harrington considers his instrument to be the quartet, not the violin. ''I
play the violin in order to be in the quartet,'' he said, adding that he fits in
his own practicing when he can. At the rehearsal, he told Ms. Lara that ''it's
not the amount of time, it's what you do with the little time you have.''

''Teaching how to practice is something that should be done,'' he said. ''If I
were to have learned how to practice when I was a little kid, the Philip Glass
sixth quartet would have been easier to learn.''

Despite the difficulties of constant travel and performing with jet lag, ''the
sources of inspiration are so inspiring and just energizing that a momentary
tiredness doesn't get in the way too much,'' he said.

At a recent concert at the University of Maryland, he recalled, an audience
member shouted ''40 more years'' during the applause after the performance.

''The energy that we're getting from our audiences and the music and composers
is thrilling to us,'' Mr. Harrington said. ''I've felt that this art form has
periodically needed a good kick.''

He added: ''And we've tried to provide that as often as we can. It will probably
continue to need the same. So I'll keep my kicking foot in good condition.''



                              
 Institution Exploring Political Left Is Closing

 

For nearly 40 years the Brecht Forum has held classes, lectures, symposiums,
musical performances and art exhibitions, all organized around the aim of
examining the role of the political left in American society.

But in a twist of irony, the institution, long a center of skepticism against
capitalism, is closing, apparently felled by market forces, its board of
directors announced Saturday in an email.

''The economic climate, combined with the realities of real estate in New York
City, have simply made the provision of space impossible for an organization of
our means,'' the message said, adding, ''It has become clear that in a rapidly
gentrifying city, we have been living on borrowed time.''

Many of those familiar with the center wondered how the various political
movements that used it as an incubator of ideas would fare with one fewer spot
to gather.

''It grew into a kind of anchor or touchstone for many activists,'' said Leslie
Cagan, who was the primary organizer of a 1982 demonstration in Central Park
against nuclear weapons that drew hundreds of thousands of people and who helped
organize protests in 2004 during the Republican National Convention in New York.
''Brecht provided an atmosphere that encouraged debate and dialogue and an
exchange of ideas.''

Benjamin Shepard, a human services professor at the City University of New York,
said that he was inside the center on Saturday evening, participating in a class
centering on the Marxist theorists Antonio Gramsci and Georg Lukacs, when the
discussion was interrupted with an announcement of the closing. Mr. Shepard said
that those inside the center were stunned by the news.

''There we were, talking about the need to maintain counterinstitutions of the
left,'' he said. ''And meanwhile the counterinstitution we were sitting in was
crumbling around us.''

The forum, which is named for the German playwright Bertolt Brecht, began in
1975 as the New York Marxist School and was located in a few different spots
before ending up in a building on West Street in 2005. The center recently moved
to a community center in Boerum Hill called the Commons Brooklyn.

The center's mission, according to its website, is to ''create, within existing
society, a counter-hegemonic culture of working people and their allies, who are
capable of challenging the capitalist agenda, prefiguring new ways of thinking
and of self-organization, as well as creating new ways of relating to each other
and nature.''

Figures like Noam Chomsky, William Greider, Lewis H. Lapham and Naomi Klein have
spoken at events at the forum. Affiliated groups include the Institute for
Popular Education, the Theater of the Oppressed Laboratory and the Strike
Anywhere Theater Ensemble.

Admission to the center was generally free or based on a sliding scale. Plenty
of serious discussion about politics and philosophy took place in the brick
building on West Street, but the activists who gathered there had a lighter
side, too, sometimes playing foosball or a Marxist version of Monopoly, called
Class Struggle.

The center was perhaps best known for its panels and symposiums, which often
addressed global topics. Over the years the center has hosted gatherings to
discuss the Zapatista movement in Mexico and the Tahrir Square uprising in Egypt
that toppled the government of Hosni Mubarak.

Some American protests were planned at the center, too. Occupy Wall Street
participants gathered there. And in 2001 and 2002, people met there to plan
demonstrations objecting to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Board members could not be reached for additional comment on Sunday, but the
email from the board suggested that the financial problems were long in the
making, saying that the board had ''struggled'' to keep up with costs at the
West Street space, which was made more difficult when the center was forced to
close for four months after Hurricane Sandy.

''Rising Manhattan rents forced us to Brooklyn, but we have incurred debts and
costs that are insurmountable,'' the board members wrote, saying that they had
decided to close the forum ''with dignity'' and the hope that ''the larger
project we all care so deeply about may survive in a different form.''



                              
 It's the End of the World as We Know It . . . and He Feels fine

 

Late one night last August, on the chalk downlands of southern England, Paul
Kingsnorth stood in a field beside an old-growth forest, two yurts and a
composting toilet. Kingsnorth is 41, tall, slim and energetic, with sweeping
brown hair and a sparse beard. He wears rimless glasses and a silver stud in his
ear, and he talks with great ardor, often apologizing for having said too much
or for having said it too strongly.

On this occasion, Kingsnorth was silent. It was the final night of
Uncivilization, an outdoor festival run by the Dark Mountain Project, a loose
network of ecologically minded artists and writers, and he was standing with
several dozen others waiting for the festival's midnight ritual to begin.
Kingsnorth, a founder of the group, had already taken part in several sessions
that day, including one on contemporary nature writing; a panel about the
iniquities of mainstream psychiatric care; and a reading from his most recent
book, ''The Wake,'' a novel set in the 11th century and written in a ''shadow
language'' -- a mash-up of Old and modern English. He had also helped his two
young children assemble a train set while trying to encapsulate his views on
climate change and environmental degradation in what Kingsnorth describes as an
era of global disruption. The ''human machine,'' as he sometimes puts it, has
grown to such a size that breakdown is inevitable. What, then, do we do?

In the clearing, above a pyre, someone had erected a tall wicker sculpture in
the shape of a tree, with dense gnarls and hanging hoops. Four men in masks
knelt at the sculpture's base, at cardinal compass points. When midnight struck,
a fifth man, his head shaved smooth and wearing a kimono, began to walk slowly
around them. As he passed the masked figures, each ignited a yellow flare, until
finally, his circuit complete, the bald man set the sculpture on fire. For a
couple of minutes, it was quiet. Then as the wicker blazed, a soft chant passed
through the crowd, the words only gradually becoming clear: ''We are gathered.
We are gathered. We are gathered.''

After that came disorder. A man wearing a stag mask bounded into the clearing
and shouted: ''Come! Let's play!'' The crowd broke up. Some headed for bed. A
majority headed for the woods, to a makeshift stage that had been blocked off
with hay bales and covered by an enormous nylon parachute. There they danced,
sang, laughed, barked, growled, hooted, mooed, bleated and meowed, forming a
kind of atavistic, improvisatory choir. Deep into the night, you could hear them
from your tent, shifting every few minutes from sound to sound, animal to animal
and mood to mood.

The next morning over breakfast, Dougie Strang, a Scottish artist and performer
who is on Dark Mountain's steering committee, asked if I'd been there. When he
left, at 3 a.m., he said, people were writhing in the mud and singing, in
harmony, the children's song ''Teddy Bears' Picnic.'' (''If you go down in the
woods today, you're sure of a big surprise.'') ''Wasn't it amazing?'' he said,
grinning. ''It really went mental. I think we actually achieved
uncivilization.''

The Dark Mountain Project was founded in 2009. From the start, it has been
difficult to pin down -- even for its members. If you ask a representative of
the Sierra Club to describe his organization, he will say that it promotes
responsible use of the earth's resources. When you ask Kingsnorth about Dark
Mountain, he speaks of mourning, grief and despair. We are living, he says,
through the ''age of ecocide,'' and like a long-dazed widower, we are finally
becoming sensible to the magnitude of our loss, which it is our duty to face.

Kingsnorth himself arrived at this point about six years ago, after nearly two
decades of devoted activism. He had just completed his second book, ''Real
England,'' a travelogue about the homogenizing effects of global capitalism on
English culture and character. ''Real England'' was a great success -- the first
of his career. All the major newspapers reviewed the book; the archbishop of
Canterbury and David Cameron (then the opposition leader) cited it in speeches;
Mark Rylance, the venerated Shakespearean actor, adopted it as a kind of bible
during rehearsals for his hit play ''Jerusalem.'' Yet Kingsnorth found himself
strangely ambivalent about the praise. ''Real England'' was a painful book to
write. For months he interviewed publicans, shopkeepers and farmers fighting to
maintain small, traditional English institutions -- fighting and losing.
Everywhere Kingsnorth traveled, he saw the forces of development, conglomeration
and privatization flattening the country. By the time he published his findings,
he was in little mood to celebrate.

At the same time, he felt his longstanding faith in environmental activism
draining away. ''I had a lot of friends who were writing about climate change
and doing a lot of good work on it,'' he told me during a break from his
festival duties. ''I was just listening and looking at the facts and thinking:
Wow, we are really screwed here. We are not going to stop this from happening.''

The facts were indeed increasingly daunting. The first decade of the 21st
century was shaping up to be the hottest in recorded history. In 2007, the
Arctic sea ice shrank to a level not seen in centuries. That same year, the NASA
climatologist James Hansen, who has been ringing the climate alarm since the
1980s, announced that in order to elude the most devastating consequences, we'd
need to maintain carbon dioxide in the atmosphere at a level of 350 parts per
million. But we'd already surpassed 380, and the figure was rising. (It has
since reached 400 p.p.m.) Animal and plant species, meanwhile, were dying out at
a spectacular rate. Scientists were beginning to warn that human activity --
greenhouse-gas emissions, urbanization, the global spread of invasive species --
was driving the planet toward a ''mass extinction'' event, something that has
occurred only five times since life emerged, 3.5 billion years ago.

''Everything had gotten worse,'' Kingsnorth said. ''You look at every trend that
environmentalists like me have been trying to stop for 50 years, and every
single thing had gotten worse. And I thought: I can't do this anymore. I can't
sit here saying: 'Yes, comrades, we must act! We only need one more push, and
we'll save the world!' I don't believe it. I don't believe it! So what do I
do?''

The first thing that Kingsnorth did was draft a manifesto. Also called
''Uncivilization,'' it was an intense, brooding document that vilified progress.
''There is a fall coming,'' it announced. ''After a quarter-century of
complacency, in which we were invited to believe in bubbles that would never
burst, prices that would never fall . . . Hubris has been introduced to
Nemesis.''

The initial print run of ''Uncivilization'' was only 500 copies. Yet the
manifesto gained widespread attention. The philosopher John Gray reviewed it in
The New Statesman. Professors included it on their reading lists. An events
space in Wales invited Kingsnorth and Dougald Hine, Dark Mountain's co-founder,
to put on a festival; 400 people showed up. Doug Tompkins, the billionaire who
started the outdoor-apparel company the North Face, and his wife, Kristine
Tompkins, the former C.E.O. of Patagonia, offered financing and invited
Kingsnorth and his family to spend two months on land they own in southern
Chile.

There were others, however, who saw Kingsnorth's new work as a betrayal. With
waters rising, deserts spreading and resource wars looming, how could his
message be anything but reckless -- even callous? He and his sympathizers were
branded ''doomers,'' ''nihilists'' and (Kingsnorth's favorite epithet) ''crazy
collapsitarians.'' One critic, a sustainability advocate, published an essay in
The Ecologist -- a magazine Kingsnorth once helped run -- comparing Dark
Mountaineers to the complacent characters in the Douglas Adams novel ''The
Restaurant at the End of the Universe'': ''Diners [who] enjoyed watching the
obliteration of life, the universe and everything whilst enjoying a nice
steak.''

Kingsnorth regards such charges with equanimity, countering that the only hope
he has abandoned is false hope. The great value of Dark Mountain, he has
claimed, is that it gives people license to do the same. ''Whenever I hear the
word 'hope' these days, I reach for my whiskey bottle,'' he told an interviewer
in 2012. ''It seems to me to be such a futile thing. What does it mean? What are
we hoping for? And why are we reduced to something so desperate? Surely we only
hope when we are powerless?''

Instead of trying to ''save the earth,'' Kingsnorth says, people should start
talking about what is actually possible. Kingsnorth has admitted to an
ex-activist's cynicism about politics as well as to a worrying ambivalence about
whether he even wants civilization, as it now operates, to prevail. But he
insists that he isn't opposed to political action, mass or otherwise, and that
his indignations about environmental decline and industrial capitalism are, if
anything, stronger than ever. Still, much of his recent writing has been devoted
to fulminating against how environmentalism, in its crisis phase, draws
adherents. Movements like Bill McKibben's 350.org, for instance, might engage
people, Kingsnorth told me, but they have no chance of stopping climate change.
''I just wish there was a way to be more honest about that,'' he went on,
''because actually what McKibben's doing, and what all these movements are
doing, is selling people a false premise. They're saying, 'If we take these
actions, we will be able to achieve this goal.' And if you can't, and you know
that, then you're lying to people. And those people . . . they're going to feel
despair.''

Whatever the merits of this diagnosis (''Look, I'm no Pollyanna,'' McKibben
says. ''I wrote the original book about the climate for a general audience, and
it carried the cheerful title 'The End of Nature' ''), it has proved
influential. The author and activist Naomi Klein, who has known Kingsnorth for
many years, says Dark Mountain has given people a forum in which to be honest
about their sense of dread and loss. ''Faced with ecological collapse, which is
not a foregone result, but obviously a possible one, there has to be a space in
which we can grieve,'' Klein told me. ''And then we can actually change.''

Kingsnorth would agree with the need for grief but not with the idea that it
must lead to change -- at least not the kind of change that mainstream
environmental groups pursue. ''What do you do,'' he asked, ''when you accept
that all of these changes are coming, things that you value are going to be
lost, things that make you unhappy are going to happen, things that you wanted
to achieve you can't achieve, but you still have to live with it, and there's
still beauty, and there's still meaning, and there are still things you can do
to make the world less bad? And that's not a series of questions that have any
answers other than people's personal answers to them. Selfishly it's just a
process I'm going through.'' He laughed. ''It's extremely narcissistic of me.
Rather than just having a personal crisis, I've said: 'Hey! Come share my crisis
with me!' ''

In 2012, in the nature magazine Orion, Kingsnorth began to publish a series of
essays articulating his new, dark ecological vision. He set his views in
opposition to what he called neo-environmentalism -- the idea that, as he put
it, ''civilization, nature and people can only be 'saved' by enthusiastically
embracing biotechnology, synthetic biology, nuclear power, geoengineering and
anything else with the prefix 'new' that annoys Greenpeace.'' Or as Stewart
Brand, the 75-year-old ''social entrepreneur'' best known as the publisher of
the " Whole Earth Catalog,'' has put it: ''We are as gods and have to get good
at it.''

For Kingsnorth, the notion that technology will stave off the most catastrophic
effects of global warming is not just wrong, it's repellent -- a distortion of
the proper relationship between humans and the natural world and evidence that
in the throes of crisis, many environmentalists have abandoned the principle
that ''nature has some intrinsic, inherent value beyond the instrumental.'' If
we lose sight of that ideal in the name of saving civilization, he argues, if we
allow ourselves to erect wind farms on every mountain and solar arrays in every
desert, we will be accepting a Faustian bargain.

When Kingsnorth describes how he came to this way of thinking, he nearly always
begins with an ancient chalk hill outside Winchester, not far from the site of
the recent Uncivilization festival. It was 1992, and the conservative British
government was about to break ground on a vast network of highways across
England.

The highways were proposed three years earlier by Margaret Thatcher, whose
administration announced that they would constitute the ''biggest road-building
program since the Romans.'' As it happened, they would also cut through areas
that had remained unspoiled since the Romans. Direct opposition to the program
began at a hill called Twyford Down, through which the government planned to
build a six-lane highway. The purpose of the road was to reduce the commute to
London by a matter of minutes. In 1992, a small band of radicals calling
themselves the Dongas staged a demonstration. Soon road protests were popping up
across the country, drawing support from itinerant hippies, the working classes
and the nobility.

Students of popular movements often credit the road protests of the 1990s with
radicalizing a generation of British youth. This is certainly true of
Kingsnorth. While at Oxford, he spent many weekends at Twyford Down -- locking
arms, waving placards, shouting slogans. He found it intoxicating to put himself
on the line for a cause. At Twyford Down, he was arrested for the first time,
for chaining himself, along with 50 others, to a bridge. He loved it. (He later
sued the police and received a settlement of $5,000.) Kingsnorth was even more
intoxicated by the proud impracticality of the protests. The core of the
demonstrators' complaints was not that the new highways would worsen air
pollution, cause car accidents or fracture communities; it was that some things,
like wilderness and beauty, were -- despite, or perhaps because of, their
''uselessness'' -- more important than getting to work on time. The motivation
was raw, intuitive and, in its Wordsworthian love of the Arcadian, very, very
English. In an essay titled ''Confessions of a Recovering Environmentalist,''
Kingsnorth wrote that after Twyford Down, he ''vowed, self-importantly, that
this would be my life's work: Saving nature from people. Preventing the
destruction of beauty and brilliance, speaking up for the small and the
overlooked and the things that could not speak for themselves.''

It proved easier to make this vow than to act on it. The chief obstacle was his
father: a driven, competitive man who scraped his way up from a working-class
background to become the head of a manufacturing firm. Kingsnorth's father was
not without a love of the outdoors, but it was a striving, willful kind of love.
He often took Kingsnorth on long, arduous hiking trips, forcing him to carry
heavy packs and disappearing far up the trail to teach his son the virtues of
independence and struggle.

These trips were both trials and revelations. It was while backpacking with his
father on the moors of Cornwall and atop the hills of Northumberland that
Kingsnorth had his first cathartic experiences in nature -- experiences that
were responsible for the direction his life was now taking. But his father
wasn't prone to seeing that as a consolation. ''I'd gone off to Oxford as a guy
in jeans and a T-shirt,'' Kingsnorth says, ''then I started wearing tie-dye tops
and putting beads in my hair and walking around in big boots, as dudes do.''

Kingsnorth wouldn't tell his father about his arrest for 10 years. Nor would he
find a way to elude the expectations placed on him. His 20s were an awkward --
and not very successful -- mix of idealism and ambition. At Oxford he was editor
of Cherwell, the university's longest-running student newspaper, whose staff has
included Graham Greene, W. H. Auden and (on the business end) Rupert Murdoch. He
parlayed this honor into an entry-level position as a researcher at The
Independent, in London. He was miserable. He found the work frivolous and his
superiors out of touch. In 1995, seven years after the creation of the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and six years after a global treaty
regulating CFCs, he had to explain to an editor the difference between global
warming and ozone depletion.

Kingsnorth lasted on Fleet Street for less than a year. He stayed in London
another two, working for a poorly run nonprofit, writing a protest novel no one
wanted to publish and getting increasingly fed up with the congestion and noise.
Finally he returned to Oxford, figuring he would freelance. The rent was cheap,
and in the late 1990s the pubs were filled with green activists and writers. But
Kingsnorth has always found it difficult to stand still -- another trait, he
says, he inherited from his father. In 2001, hungry to travel, he took his
agent's advice to write a book about the growing anti-globalization movement,
which came to prominence two years before when thousands gathered to protest the
World Trade Organization in Seattle.

For Kingsnorth, the anti-globalization movement was both opportunity and
mission. He attended mass protests in Prague, where he was tear-gassed for the
first time, and Genoa, where the police shot and killed a young anarchist two
streets from where Kingsnorth was marching. The experiences radicalized him
anew. ''It was similar to what I'd felt at the road protests,'' he told me.
''Here's millions of people who don't like this way of measuring the world,
don't like this way of living, don't like this way of seeing the world.'' He
made reporting trips to four continents, tracing the movement's roots and common
themes.

His timing could not have been worse. His book came out in March 2003, during
the first week of the Iraq war. It landed ''with an inaudible thud.'' He
returned to Oxford and spent the next few years writing pamphlets, articles and
another novel (for which, again, he could not find a publisher), and he began
''Real England.''

In August 2007, as he was picking flowers in the small back garden of his house,
he got a call that his father had killed himself. Kingsnorth's father had been
living in Cyprus, in semiretirement. His marriage had fallen apart. He had a
nervous breakdown and spent time in a psychiatric hospital. One morning, he
wrote a bitter suicide note, got in his car and drove full speed into a parked
truck.

Kingsnorth's reaction to his father's death was conflicted. He'd often suspected
that behind his own drive to achieve -- to have his opinions aired on television
and his books published by mainstream presses, to lead mass movements -- was a
need to satisfy his father's more conventional expectations of him. Now that
need was obsolete. He felt a sense of release, as if he'd been given permission
to say what he wanted to say, in any way he wanted to say it. He felt he could
finally, with a clear conscience, ''go to the margins.'' All he had to do was
figure out what that meant.

''Do you know what the 'first follower' is?'' Dougald Hine, Dark Mountain's
co-founder, asked me. It was Friday at dusk during the Uncivilization festival,
and we had taken our dinners out to the woods to talk. We were sitting on logs,
our paper plates balanced on our knees.

The first follower is a concept introduced by the musician and entrepreneur
Derek Sivers in a short TED talk titled, ''How to Start a Movement.'' In the
talk, Sivers shows an amateur video that begins with a shirtless man gyrating
wildly on a hillside at what seems to be a concert. For a while the man dances
alone, swinging his hips and arms as if possessed, or more likely high.
Eventually someone joins him, and they hold hands and gyrate together. Before
you know it, a full-fledged dance party has broken out.

''The point being,'' Hine said, ''that the first follower transforms you from a
lunatic into someone who's got the beginning of something.''

For Hine, the equivalent of the lone dancer was a pair of blog posts Kingsnorth
wrote in late 2007. The first was a bilious rant announcing his retirement from
journalism. (''The media can go hang. I've had it. I'm out.'') The second,
written after yet another international climate conference sputtered out,
expressed his ''joyous'' abandonment of hope that global warming could be
stopped. Hine was just turning 30. A scruffy, bright-eyed man with an unruly mop
of hair, he had for years worked, unhappily and off and on, as a radio reporter
for the BBC. Like Kingsnorth, he quit in a spasm of disgust. Also like
Kingsnorth, Hine experienced a transformation in his feelings about climate
change: first an obsessive phase of turning off light switches and idling
electronics; then a despondent ''Oskar Schindler phase of 'It's never enough'
''; then a point of curious repose. He emailed Kingsnorth and introduced
himself. In the fall of 2008, they met at a pub in Oxford to discuss how they
might collaborate.

During their first meeting, Kingsnorth and Hine spent most of their time
exchanging influences -- ''showing each other our maps,'' is how Hine puts it.
Hine talked about his passion for the author and critic John Berger, who for the
past four decades has lived and farmed in a small French village, and for the
late Austrian priest and polymath Ivan Illich, a fierce critic of Western
culture. Kingsnorth, in turn, introduced Hine to the American poet Robinson
Jeffers, who quickly became a kind of lodestar for Dark Mountain.

Jeffers is little read today, but he was one of the most celebrated writers of
the 1930s and 1940s. A friend of Edward Weston and D. H. Lawrence, he lived, as
one critic put it, ''like a reclusive movie-star-wizard'' in a stone tower
overlooking the Pacific, writing hundreds of poems endowed with the spirit of
what he came to call Inhumanism -- ''a shifting of emphasis and significance
from man to not-man.'' At a time when the Great Depression was destroying
millions of lives and Europe was militarizing for a new war, Jeffers saw human
history as an inexorable, almost naturally destructive force. ''The beauty of
modern/Man is not in the persons,'' he wrote in ''Rearmament,'' a poem that
became the epigraph for ''Uncivilization,', ''but in the/Disastrous rhythm, the
heavy and mobile masses, the dance of the/Dream-led masses down the dark
mountain.''

Kingsnorth and Hine's aspirations for their manifesto weren't revolutionary, but
neither were they nihilistic. Each man draws a distinction between a
''problem,'' which can be solved, and a ''predicament,'' which must be endured.
''Uncivilization'' was firm in its conviction that climate change and other
ecological crises are predicaments, and it called for a cadre of like-minded
writers to ''challenge the stories which underpin our civilization: the myth of
progress, the myth of human centrality and the myth of separation from 'nature.'
''

Writers whose work more or less fit the manifesto's bill answered Kingsnorth's
and Hine's call. In 2010, he and Hine published the first in what has become a
series of Dark Mountain books -- literary journals, essentially -- hard-bound
and lavishly illustrated. Naomi Klein is by far the best known of the
contributors, but the series also includes lengthy interviews with the cultural
ecologist David Abram and the social critic Derrick Jensen.

Kingsnorth and Hine consider the books to be the heart of Dark Mountain's work.
Had it not been for the surge of interest that greeted the manifesto, Kingsnorth
might have stopped there, retreating into the private life of a father and an
artist. Retreat was, after all, what he was after -- or what he thought he was
after. In 2009, he and his wife, a psychiatrist with the National Health
Service, decided to move from Oxford to Cumbria, in the far north of England.
Kingsnorth wanted to spend his time writing; taking his children for hikes in
the hills, as his father had taken him; and improving his skills on the scythe,
a tool he valued for its simplicity and efficiency. (For the past three summers,
he has taught scything classes in the area around his home.) Instead he found
himself at the head of a burgeoning organization that even its critics might
concede was changing the environmental debate in Britain and the rest of Europe.
It was a slightly awkward position. Just when Kingsnorth had publicly abandoned
faith in movements, he became the leader of one.

On the first night of the Uncivilization festival, in an open-sided shelter made
of soft-wood planks and cedar shingles drawn from the surrounding woods, there
was a concert. A choral group from London, the Songlines Choir, stood in front
of a wide clay fireplace and performed music from Cape Verde and Turkey, as well
as a song based on a poem that appeared in the third Dark Mountain book. The
song centered on the plaintive, almost pleading refrain, ''What matters is
already here.'' All the performers were dressed in fire-engine red. Later, a
singer-songwriter named Marmaduke Dando -- he describes himself, alternately, as
''a neo-pagan vaudeville crooner'' and the ''bard of disempire'' -- sang a
bitter and languid ballad titled ''Love My Country, Hate My State.''

Watching the concert at the edge of the shelter, I met a young woman, Sarah
Thomas, who'd spent the summer backpacking around England. Halfway through the
show, we decided to check out an art project by Strang, the Scottish artist,
that had emerged as the festival's most popular draw. It was raining, and we
walked up and down hills in the dark until we came to a tiny makeshift hut with
a red door and a round wooden sign that read ''Charnel House for Roadkill.''

The installation was inspired by a Barry Lopez essay in which he suggests that
people pay respect to the lives of animals killed crossing roads and highways.
(''You never know,'' Lopez writes, ''the ones you give some semblance of a
burial, to whom you offer an apology, may have been like seers in a parallel
culture. It's an act of respect, a technique of awareness.'') The hut was
cramped and eerie, decorated with the bones of small animals in illuminated
glass cases. Haunting music was piped in from an iPod. You walked through a
curtain, sat down and put on a heavy papier-mâché mask -- a badger surrogate.
Directly across from you, seated behind a window in the back wall, was another
person -- a volunteer -- also wearing a badger mask. He or she sat silently,
except when mirroring whatever movements you made, until, driven by emotion,
fatigue, satisfaction or plain discomfort, you left.

Sitting in the hut, the air stale and the light almost nonexistent, I thought of
something Hine told me earlier. ''People think that abandoning belief in
progress, abandoning the belief that if we try hard enough we can fix this mess,
is a nihilistic position,'' Hine said. ''They think we're saying: 'Screw it.
Nothing matters.' But in fact all we're saying is: 'Let's not pretend we're not
feeling despair. Let's sit with it for a while. Let's be honest with ourselves
and with each other. And then as our eyes adjust to the darkness, what do we
start to notice?' ''

Hine compared coming to terms with the scope of ecological loss to coming to
terms with a terminal illness. ''The feeling is a feeling of despair to begin
with, but within that space other things begin to come through.'' Yet arriving
at this acute state of ''awareness of what's worth doing with the time you've
got left'' isn't always easy for Dark Mountain's followers. ''Some people come
here,'' Hine told me, ''they get very excited by the fact that people are
inspired, and they go: 'Right! Great! So what's the plan?' '' He and Kingsnorth
have worked hard to check this impulse, seeing Dark Mountain as a space to set
aside what Kingsnorth refers to as ''activist-y'' urges.

This wasn't always the case. At the first festival, in 2010, Kingsnorth behaved
the way he thought the leader of a new movement ought to behave. He
proselytized. He lectured. He gave a talk that he describes as ''Here's what's
wrong with environmentalism, and this is what must change!'' But he quickly
concluded that a didactic tone was inappropriate for the new group. Dark
Mountain had more in common with the anarchism of Occupy Wall Street than with
the collectivism of 350.org: everyone was to choose his or her own course of
action. Recently, Kingsnorth and Hine decided not to hold any more festivals.
They want to focus their limited resources on publishing more books more
frequently, but they also don't want the gatherings to ossify into a predictable
program -- or worse, an annual party.

For more conventional activists, Dark Mountain's insistence on remaining
impractical can be not only disorienting but also irksome. George Monbiot, one
of the England's most prominent environmental journalists, is among Kingsnorth's
oldest friends. In 2009, after the manifesto was published, he and Kingsnorth
held a debate in The Guardian, for which Monbiot writes a column. It was a
heated exchange. Kingsnorth argued that civilization was approaching collapse
and that it was time to step back and talk about how to live through it with
dignity and honor. Monbiot responded that ''stepping back'' from direct
political action was equivalent to a near-criminal disavowal of one's moral
duty. ''How many people do you believe the world could support without either
fossil fuels or an equivalent investment in alternative energy?'' he asked.
''How many would survive without modern industrial civilization? Two billion?
One billion? Under your vision, several billion perish. And you tell me we have
nothing to fear.''

Naomi Klein also sees a troubling abdication in Kingsnorth's work. ''I like
Paul, but he's said rather explicitly that he's giving up,'' she told me. ''We
have to be honest about what we can do. We have to keep the possibility of
failure in our minds. But we don't have to accept failure. There are degrees to
how bad this thing can get. Literally, there are degrees.''

On the surface, it can indeed seem as if Kingsnorth is giving up. Last week, he
and his wife made a long-planned move to rural Ireland, where they will be
growing much of their own food and home schooling their children -- a decision,
he explained to me, that stemmed in part from a desire to distance himself from
technological civilization and in part from wanting to teach his children skills
they might need in a hotter future. Yet Kingsnorth has never intended to retreat
altogether. For the past three years, he has spent a good portion of his time
trying to stop a large supermarket from being built in Ulverston, in northern
England. ''Why do I do this,'' he wrote to me in an email, anticipating my
questions, ''when I know that in a national context another supermarket will
make no difference at all, and when I know that I can't stop the trend caused by
the destruction of the local economy, and when I know we probably won't win
anyway?'' He does it, he said, because his sense of what is valuable and good
recoils at all that supermarket chains represent. ''I'm increasingly attracted
by the idea that there can be at least small pockets where life and character
and beauty and meaning continue. If I could help protect one of those from
destruction, maybe that would be enough. Maybe it would be more than most people
do. ''

It's an ethic reflected in the novel he has just published. When he was a
schoolboy, Kingsnorth told me, his teachers described the Norman Conquest, in
1066, as a swift transformation. An army of Norman and French soldiers from
across the channel invaded England and swept away Anglo-Saxon civilization. The
old ways vanished, and a new world emerged. He was surprised to learn, much
later, that a resistance movement bedeviled the conquerors for a full decade.
These resisters were known as the Silvatici, or ''wild men.'' Eventually William
the Conqueror drove them from the woods and slaughtered every last one of them.
They were doomed from the start, and knew it. But that hadn't stopped them from
fighting.

In Kingsnorth's telling, it also didn't stop them from wondering whether they
should keep fighting. On the afternoon following the concert, standing in the
wooden shelter, he described his novel as being both about the collapse of a
civilization and about the collapse of long-cherished certainties about what it
means to be civilized. His introductory remarks were lively and entertaining,
but nervously so, as if he were reluctant to begin. Later, he told me it was the
first time he'd ever read publicly from the book. He read a strange excerpt, a
sort of dream vision about a young boy and a stag. ''I have no idea which part
of my subconscious I dredged this up from,'' he later wrote me, ''but the
conversation they end up having is pretty much the conversation I have with
myself at the moment when it comes to what the hell I can possibly do to be of
any use at all'':

when will i be free saes the cilde to the stag

and the stag saes thu will nefer be free

then when will angland be free

angland will nefer be free

then what can be done

naht can be done

then how moste i lif

thu moste be triewe that is all there is

be triewe

be triewe

''I hope these ramblings are of some use to you!'' he signed off. ''I will have
a glass of wine now and try not to worry about it.''



                              
 Bankers in Hong Kong Join Fight Against Mainland Influence

 

HONG KONG -- In this city awash with money from mainland China, a former hedge
fund manager hopes to incite a political awakening among the bankers,
stockbrokers and financial traders whose livelihoods have become increasingly
enmeshed in the mainland's cash and influence.

If Edward C. K. Chin and his 70 or so supporters have their way, growing numbers
from the city's financial class will join a campaign that in coming months plans
to stage civil disobedience protests in Central -- the business district where
many of them work in sleek office towers -- demanding unfettered elections for
Hong Kong's leaders in 2017 and beyond.

In a letter to China's president, Xi Jinping, to be published in newspapers on
Wednesday, the financial industry activists say Hong Kong's economic health and
social integrity have been jeopardized by threats to independent news media, an
influx of suspect money and political cronyism that undermines fairness in
banking and financial services, a mainstay of the economy.

''Hong Kong's existing political system has become the stumbling block to the
city's long-term social, political and economic growth and is the root cause of
social division and disharmony in Hong Kong,'' says the letter, a copy of which
Mr. Chin provided.

The answer, the letter says, lies in ensuring that Hong Kong's elections are
open, without Beijing's wielding power to engineer the outcome by excluding
candidates or skewing the voting procedures. China's national legislature has
said that the election of the Hong Kong chief executive in 2017 ''may be
implemented by the method of universal suffrage,'' but critics say the Hong Kong
government's proposals to deliver that broad promise could be fatally
compromised by limits demanded by Beijing. Hong Kong's chief executive is
currently chosen by an elite committee of about 1,200 people, many of them seen
as beholden to the Chinese government.

Mr. Chin and his supporters, who call themselves a financial arm of the ''Occupy
Central'' movement, embody a trend that could prove increasingly troublesome for
Beijing's efforts to manage Hong Kong, which maintains its own administration
and laws. Anxiety over mainland influence is reaching up the social ladder to
include members of the professional establishment who outwardly appear to have
much to gain from avoiding confrontation with the Chinese government and its
supporters. Critics of Occupy Central warn that the movement could hurt economic
confidence, but its backers say Hong Kong's long-term economic health requires
political action to press for change.

''Most people think people who work in banking or finance only focus on work, or
people say we are the beneficiary of this system,'' said Lai Chong Au, a
marketing manager at an investment firm, who has joined the group started by Mr.
Chin.

''But that's not true,'' she said. ''In the long run, if you want to maintain an
international banking and financial center in Hong Kong, you need to have a good
system, a good framework, in order to protect it.''

Michael E. DeGolyer, a political scientist at Hong Kong Baptist University, said
a forthcoming study of public opinion showed levels of public discontent with
the Hong Kong government similar to those seen before mass protests in 2003,
when the government tried to introduce Beijing-backed antisubversion laws.

''People in Hong Kong have been characterized as politically apathetic, but
that's the wrong term,'' he said. ''They are extremely alert to things that
might threaten them, their families and their fortunes.''

Long a British colony, Hong Kong returned to Chinese sovereignty in 1997. In
recent years, the ''one country, two systems'' arrangement that was created to
preserve Hong Kong's legal and administrative autonomy has come under pressure
from Chinese political and economic influence. Despite the echoes of Occupy Wall
Street, Hong Kong's ''Occupy Central With Love and Peace'' is focused on winning
political and electoral rights, not challenging capitalism.

But Mr. Chin, who runs an investment fund, said that in Hong Kong, too, wealth
and opportunity have risen beyond the grasp of many middle-class residents, even
financial professionals. The city's boast of being the world's freest economy is
belied by realities, he said. ''In Hong Kong, honestly, it's like 0.01 percent
is what I call the ruling class,'' he said.

Mainland China's deepening presence has been accompanied by an influx of suspect
cash -- possibly from corruption -- and cronyism that have compromised Hong
Kong's financial sector, Mr. Chin said. The most lucrative jobs and deals tend
to go increasingly to people who are relatives of China's Communist Party elite
or those who have their patronage, he said.

''They definitely don't compete on the same level playing field,'' Mr. Chin
said.

He said that his group, mainly Hong Kong-born Chinese, had received support from
some mainland Chinese people living in Hong Kong, who feared that the
territory's relatively clean business environment could be tainted by
rough-and-tumble practices and corruption more common on the mainland.

''They have seen how it works on both sides,'' he said. ''They don't want this
city to die.''

He and other members of his group said they were not surprised by allegations,
pursued by United States investigators, that JPMorgan Chase used a jobs program
to recruit family members of the Chinese Communist Party elite while the bank
fought to win business on the mainland. Neither JPMorgan nor any of the other
banks under scrutiny for similar practices has been accused of wrongdoing.

Last week, Chinese Communist Party investigators began an inquiry into Song Lin,
the chairman of China Resources, a state-controlled conglomerate, after a
journalist went public with allegations that Mr. Song had laundered money with
the help of a mistress, a Chinese banker working in Hong Kong. Mr. Song has been
removed from his job.

''Gradually the apple has become rotten,'' said another activist backing Occupy
Central, Bill Tsang, who recently retired as a senior manager at the Hong Kong
Exchanges and Clearing Limited, or HKEx.

''The mainlanders, they get big deals, not because of their competence, but
maybe for political relationships or guanxi,'' he said, using the Mandarin word
for connections. ''Corruption culture has now already come to Hong Kong.''

He and others said China's political and commercial sway also threatened to
stifle Hong Kong newspapers and broadcasters that have produced critical
coverage of the mainland and its policies in Hong Kong. Growing worries about
pressure on the local news media reached a fever pitch in February, when Kevin
Lau Chun-to, the former chief editor of Ming Pao, a newspaper with a tradition
of independent journalism, was attacked with a cleaver.

Mr. Lau is recovering, and the police said the authorities in China had arrested
two suspects.

Hong Kong's financial services sector is a mainstay of the economy. It accounts
for 16 percent of gross domestic product and provided 228,000 jobs in 2012 in a
population of 7.2 million, according to the government. A public opinion survey
conducted in December indicated that a majority of professionals and managers
supported the Occupy Central campaign, a higher proportion than among
blue-collar and menial workers.

But members of the financial group supporting Occupy Central said they did not
expect most of Hong Kong's financial sector workers to turn private support into
public action. They said that many were too wary of recriminations, while others
believed Hong Kong's best course was to accommodate or quietly resist mainland
pressures.

''I think this is a long-term battle,'' said Ms. Au, the marketing manager. ''It
might not succeed, but at least when I look back, I will know I tried.''



                              
 Massachusetts Maverick

 

A FIGHTING CHANCEBy Elizabeth Warren

Illustrated. 365 pp. Metropolitan Books/Henry Holt & Company. $28.

A couple of months ago, on Connecticut Avenue not far from the White House, I
passed a crowd of 20-somethings wearing distressed denim and hoodies. They
looked more Williamsburg than Washington and carried placards that read: ''I'm
from the Elizabeth Warren wing of the party.''

I happened to be headed to a source lunch to discuss Hillary Rodham Clinton's
potential 2016 candidacy, and the activists seemed straight out of central
casting, planted there by the same progressives who voted for Barack Obama in
2008 and are determined to find a 2016 contender to run against Clinton.

Warren, the 64-year-old Massachusetts senator described by one reporter as ''a
strand of pearls short of looking like the head of the P.T.A.,'' is not,
however, out of central casting.

A professor who spent most of her career teaching law students about bankruptcy,
Warren is an unlikely icon for the Che Guevara T-shirt-wearing set. She didn't
run for elected office until 2011; the following year, she defeated the
Republican Scott Brown to capture the Senate seat once held by Ted Kennedy. By
the time she was prodded into running, Warren had been turned off by Washington,
and her favorite activities were walking Otis, her slobbery and obese golden
retriever; knocking back fried clams and beer with her husband, the legal
historian Bruce Mann; and visiting her three grandchildren in California. Or, at
least, that's the narrative she lays out in a relatable, folksy voice in ''A
Fighting Chance.''

The book is a potent mix of memoir and policy that makes politics seem like a
necessary evil, and yet it's impossible to read Warren's story without thinking
about her meteoric rise in the Democratic Party and those Warren groupies on
Connecticut Avenue. That makes the aw-shucks, I-just-stumbled-into-the-Senate
anecdotes that propel her narrative feel inevitably like the savvy (critics
would say self-­serving) story lines that would play so well at an Elks Club in
Iowa.

Warren writes that before the 2012 campaign, the most fund-raising experience
she had was a ''ferocious effort'' to help her daughter's Brownie troop sell
cookies. Her campaign went on to raise $42 million, setting a 2012 Senate
fund-­raising record, mostly from small donations. Add lines like ''America's
middle class is under attack,'' ''The game is deliberately rigged'' and
''Politics so often felt dirty to me,'' and the book seems written by someone
with bigger ambitions than taking the grandkids to Legoland.

These are the flash points, after all, that have become central to the
Democratic Party and a White House grappling with how to address income
inequality. The ­anti-Wall Street sentiment for which Warren is the poster girl
led to the Occupy Wall Street movement and helped elect Bill de Blasio as the
mayor of New York. (Warren has said she will not run for president, and she
doesn't discuss the 2016 election in her book.)

Talking points aside, a politician's personal story is a powerful currency,
especially when it starts with a lower-middle-class childhood in Oklahoma City
and features characters like wise old Aunt Bee and salt-of-the-earth Daddy, who
lost his job selling carpeting at Montgomery Ward. (Warren writes about how
''everyone on our mother's side . . . talked openly about their Native American
ancestry,'' and she says she was ''stunned'' when Republicans called her a
''Fauxcahontas'': ''Knowing who you are is one thing, and proving who you are is
another.'')

When recounting how her political career took off, Warren spends more time on
the intricate ticktock behind the creation of a Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau than on her personal life, perhaps because she didn't have much of one in
those years. But it's the intimate moments in ''A Fighting Chance'' that make up
its less wonky and infinitely more readable parts. We see Warren as a girl,
watching her 50-year-old mother cry as she tried to zip up a too-tight black
dress; she had an interview for a job answering phones at Sears, Roebuck to help
keep the family from losing its small house in a good school district.

Refreshingly, Warren rarely dwells on her gender (though she does poke fun at an
Obama adviser's suggestion she be the C.F.P.B.'s ''cheerleader''). But like many
women of her generation, she felt stifled in the 1970s as a young wife and
mother to two children, Amelia and Alex. It was in the kitchen one night, after
she'd put both kids to bed, that Warren -- called ''Betsy'' by friends and
family -- looked over at her first husband, Jim, smoking a cigarette as she
cleaned up. She asked if he wanted a divorce. ''No hesitation, just yes. He
moved out the next weekend.''

Three decades later, Betsy was a Harvard law professor and talking with a
political operative as she contemplated a run for the Senate. She began to tell
him that her first husband had died in 2003. ''Before I could take a breath and
explain about Jim's terrible illness, . . . about the blow to Amelia and Alex,
about how he never had the chance to know his beautiful grandchildren -- the
research guy shouted 'Great!' '' In political terms, a deceased ex-husband is
better than a living one.

That's the sharp-elbowed world Warren says she never thought she'd be a part of.
''I never expected to run for office -- but then again, I never expected to do a
lot of things in my life,'' she writes. ''I never expected to meet the president
of the United States. I never expected to be a blonde.''

But a prime-time speech at the Democratic National Convention (right before Bill
Clinton) and a seat in the Senate don't happen willy-nilly, and Warren is far
from a passive observer. Before she ran for office, she had become a leading
expert in debates about predatory lending practices and bankruptcy legislation,
as well as a thorn in the financial industry's side. The idea that some banks
are too big to fail, Warren writes in ''A Fighting Chance,'' ''allows the
megabanks to operate like drunks on a wild weekend in Vegas.'' Families who fall
behind on their debts are usually ''desperately ashamed of their situation,''
and have been saddled with health care costs or tricked into taking out subprime
mortgages with egregious terms hidden in the fine print.

That message first brought Warren national attention with her 2003 book, ''The
Two-Income Trap: Why Middle-Class Parents Are Going Broke,'' written with her
daughter, Amelia Warren Tyagi. In that book, they wrote about a meeting with
Hillary Clinton in 1998 to discuss bankruptcy protections for struggling
middle-class families. (Before Warren began her pitch the first lady ''snapped
her head sharply to the side and called to no one in particular, 'Where's lunch?
I'm hungry.' '') The authors go on to criticize Clinton's coziness to Wall
Street as a New York senator. There's hardly any mention of Clinton in ''A
Fighting Chance.''

Warren mostly avoids the overheated rhetoric associated with some well-heeled
progressives; her vernacular is more Nick at Nite than The Nation. After Barney
Frank said he would include the C.F.P.B. in the Dodd-Frank reform package,
Warren thought, ''Wowee-zowee! It was a cartwheel moment.'' An invitation from
the White House arrived while she was in Oklahoma, and she rushed to the local
mall to buy the first department-store suit she could find. ''Holy cow -- the
White House! A presidential announcement!'' She nagged Treasury Secretary
Timothy Geithner to buckle his seatbelt, imitated the Three Stooges with Obama
and Geithner before stepping into the Rose Garden, and vomited from nerves
backstage at ''The Daily Show.''

For all her humble goofiness, the title of this book reminds us that this is
about Warren's fight. She is still the fiery advocate who called for a bureau to
protect consumers or, as a second choice, ''no agency at all and plenty of blood
and teeth left on the floor.'' And she lit up both political parties in 2011
when she said, at a campaign stop, ''There is nobody in this country who got
rich on his own.'' Not even stories about rocking a grandbaby to sleep or baking
Sunday-school treats could soften that.



                              
 Warnings Along F.C.C.'s Fast Lane

 

The next time the loudmouth in the next cubicle interrupts you with yet another
recap of his weekend, just start talking about ''net neutrality.''

He will immediately bury his head back in his work, perhaps even lay it on the
desk and begin napping.

But a topic that generally begets narcolepsy is about to become, well,
interesting. The government is contemplating changing the rules for how content
is delivered over the Internet, which could mess with people's TV programming
and web browsing, so there may soon be fire in those glazed-over eyes.

Wait, we've seen this before: Remember the Stop Online Piracy Act, or SOPA, the
dispute two years ago in which the entertainment companies, backed by the
government, took on Silicon Valley? It was the Little Big Horn. Time and again,
when the government tries to insert itself between the Internet and its users,
it gets clobbered. This could end up the same way. Here's why:

This Thursday, the Federal Communications Commission will vote on whether to
move forward with a proposal that would allow broadband providers to charge
extra to content providers if they want their programming delivered in a fast
lane so it streams reliably.

In a letter released on Friday, Tom Wheeler, the F.C.C. chairman, said he cared
deeply about the principle of net neutrality, or the equal treatment of content
on the Internet.

''My commitment to protect and preserve the open Internet remains steadfast,''
he wrote. But regardless of how he spins it, Mr. Wheeler is really proposing two
Internets: One slow, where most of the traffic lives, and one fast, for those
who can afford it. On Sunday, The Wall Street Journal reported that Mr. Wheeler
would propose new language, as soon as Monday, saying that the agency will not
allow the web to be divided into fast and slow lanes.

Netflix already cut such a deal with Comcast, complained about it, and then
turned around and struck essentially the same deal with Verizon, which is kind
of a nifty trick when you think about it. Comcast and other broadband providers
point out that Netflix sucks up about 30 percent of the system's capacity, so
that it should pay more than others only makes sense.

But why should you, as someone who just wants to use the web to surf or watch
programming, care whether companies like Netflix and Hulu have to pay companies
like Comcast and Verizon to ensure smooth feeds? Well, even though consumers
won't be charged directly for the faster service, we all know where those fee
increases will end up landing. I just received a notice from Netflix that the
price of a new membership is rising $1, to $8.99. It's still small money and a
bargain at that, but as its costs and that of other companies go up, what had
been a cheap alternative for lots of programming could start to become costly.

The bifurcation of the Internet is a scary prospect and the F.C.C. itself is
divided over the proposed rules: Jessica Rosenworcel, a commissioner, has called
for a delay in any changes, and Mignon Clyburn, a fellow Democrat on the
five-member panel, has joined her in pushing back against the aggressive plan
that Mr. Wheeler has set out.

A potentially more threatening pushback arrived on Wednesday when a coalition of
tech companies -- Amazon, eBay, Facebook, Google, Twitter, Yahoo, and just about
every other digital company you have ever heard of -- registered their
opposition to the changes in a letter to the F.C.C.

The signatories did not mince words, calling the proposal ''a grave threat to
the Internet.''

The letter goes on: ''The commission's longstanding commitment and actions
undertaken to protect the open Internet are a central reason why the Internet
remains an engine of entrepreneurship and economic growth,'' it reads,
continuing, ''This commission should take the necessary steps to ensure that the
Internet remains an open platform for speech and commerce so that America
continues to lead the world in technology markets.''

Translation: You are about to break the Internet and you will be deeply sorry if
you do.

In the debate between the Beltway vs. the Valley, my money is on the Valley.
Remember in 2012 when a clueless Congress lumbered into Internet regulation by
coming up with SOPA and a companion bill in the Senate (the Protect I.P. Act)?
The entertainment companies that backed the legislation thought it was no big
deal, but then a group of Silicon Valley players -- many of the same ones who
are now coalescing to oppose new Internet regulations -- unleashed their user
base and a huge wave of protest erupted. Both bills went down hard.

In the weeks after the SOPA debacle, I was at the Sundance Film Festival and
then in Hollywood, talking with entertainment executives. They looked like
extras from ''The Walking Dead,'' with bite marks all over them. They didn't
know what hit them because they did not understand the intimate relationship
that the Valley has with its customers.

Google, Facebook, Twitter and the like offer you an endless array of useful
products, many of them at a cost of absolutely nothing. (You actually trade
oodles of privacy and data for the privilege, but that's another column.) By
contrast, cable companies, which provide most of the broadband, supply an
endless array of entertainment, but at a very dear price that is not going to
endear them to anyone. Add in the fact that broadband providers are the ones we
call when the web isn't working -- have you ever contacted Netflix when your
movie was endlessly buffering? -- and you can see how they get the blame for
everything and credit for nothing.

All this comes as Comcast, the No. 1 cable company, is also appearing before the
F.C.C. and Congress seeking to acquire Time Warner Cable, the No. 2 cable
company. Between looking for approval on the merger and greater flexibility in
how it delivers web content, Comcast is asking for a great deal of permission
and control, all at the same time.

The F.C.C. is in the position of proposing new rules because in January, a
three-judge panel struck down the commission's previous attempts to exercise
control to ensure that all traffic is treated equally. So far, the commission
has declined to treat the web as a public utility because it did not want to
discourage investment by the big providers, but if it had the will and
foresight, many believe it could exercise more authority in a way that would
pass judicial muster. It would mean going back to the drawing board, and taking
on some powerful interests, but it might be worth it.

The public has an expectation that the web will work like other utilities: When
people turn on a light switch, the room lights up, and when they twist a faucet
handle, water comes out. People expect the same of the Internet -- always on,
always working.

We don't want two Internets -- a good one and a bad. We want the money and
investment to flow toward a single infrastructure that works rapidly and
efficiently, as it does in so many other countries. It should be a medium in
which videos of your niece dancing to Beyoncé, streaming coverage of Occupy Wall
Street and ''House of Cards'' all play smoothly when you hit a button.

Given the mounting opposition, the F.C.C. commissioners would be well advised to
delay any changes this Thursday. And if they don't, they may end up starring in
a sequel: ''SOPA II: When Nerds Bite Back.''



                              
 The Square People, Part 2

 

IN a famous 1995 interview about her dysfunctional marriage and the infidelity
of Prince Charles, Princess Diana noted that ''there were three of us in this
marriage, so it was a bit crowded.'' I find myself thinking of that quote lately
to describe the new politics and geopolitics that have been produced by ''The
Square People'' -- all those newly connected and aspiring middle classes who
have gathered in the squares from Cairo to Kiev, Istanbul to Tehran, and Tunis
to Moscow to demand a greater voice in their future and better governance. A lot
of leaders are discovering that these Square People are like a spontaneous third
party that has emerged between themselves and their tame traditional opposition
and, as a result, their politics is getting a bit crowded -- and a lot more
interesting.

Indeed, ''The Square'' -- as the place for these newly networked political
forces to gather, collaborate and pressure for change -- is truly disrupting
both traditional politics and geopolitics. But the big thing to watch going
forward is which Square People can go from disruption to construction -- can
take the energy and inchoate aspirations of their Square followers and turn them
into parties, elections and better governance. Surely, the most interesting of
these dramas today involves The Square People of Ukraine versus Russia's
president, Vladimir Putin.

Putin was minding his own corrupt business, living in a two-party relationship
with his neighbor Ukraine, which was being led by the even more corrupt,
pro-Moscow President Viktor Yanukovych. Suddenly, spontaneously from below, an
emergent, connected, aspiring middle class of Ukrainians -- fed up both with
regime corruption and how far they'd fallen behind their neighbors in the
European Union -- demanded that Yanukovych forge closer cooperation and trade
ties with the European Union. They also demanded something now common to every
square: the right to be treated as ''citizens'' with rights and
responsibilities, not as the playthings of oligarchs or outside powers.

Yanukovych opted instead for a closer economic relationship with Russia, so The
Square People in Kiev toppled him, challenging every aspect of Putin's
K.G.B.-shaped worldview. Putin does not believe any political protest can ever
be spontaneous. If a large body of Ukrainians gathered in the square of Kiev to
demand an end to corruption and closer ties with the E.U., it could only be
because the C.I.A., NATO or the E.U. inspired or paid them to do so. Putin's
whole mind-set is top-down, and the notion that the combination of globalization
and the I.T. revolution might have given the ''people'' both the ability to see
things they could never see before -- and the tools to collaborate and act on
them from the bottom up -- is totally alien to him.

Putin is looking backward, trying to restore Russia's czarist empire, using its
natural resources, while the Kiev Square People are looking forward, trying to
associate with the E.U., so they can develop their human resources. They believe
that integrating their economy with Europe would produce from beyond the
judicial reform, transparency and regulations that they could not generate from
below and that their leaders would never enact from above. For the Square People
of Kiev, an E.U.-Ukraine association is a vital lever for domestic renewal, but
for Putin it is a direct threat to his ''sphere of influence.''

Ditto in Turkey. A spontaneous movement emerged to resist Prime Minister Recep
Tayyip Erdogan's attempt to install a mall in the only green space near
Istanbul's central Taksim Square, but it quickly mushroomed into protests
against his autocratic rule. Erdogan went berserk. He had created a two-party
universe that included only himself and the official Turkish opposition parties
and TV stations, which he had totally cowed, tamed and neutered. So Turkey's
Square People created a new opposition, and, through Twitter and YouTube, their
own TV network.

But Erdogan has managed to outmaneuver his Square People with repeated election
victories. How? A report from Turkey in Forbes.com Friday gives one answer. Most
of Erdogan's largely rural voting base is not on YouTube or Twitter. They ''are
tech-illiterate; they get their news from television,'' which he controls.
''Television news channels show only the damage and virulence of protest, a
selection of images that ultimately give the impression of anarchy loosed upon
the country by rabid troublemakers.'' Putin has used the same propaganda in
Moscow and Ukraine.

This failure to translate their aspirations into parties that could contest
elections and then govern is the Achilles' heel of The Square People -- from
Tahrir Square to Occupy Wall Street.

Or as Moises Naim, the author of a very smart book on this subject, ''The End of
Power,'' recently observed in The Atlantic: Today ''an appeal to protest via
Twitter, Facebook, or text message is sure to attract a crowd, especially if it
is to demonstrate against something -- anything, really -- that outrages us. The
problem is what happens after the march. ... Behind massive street
demonstrations there is rarely a well-oiled and more-permanent organization
capable of following up on protesters' demands and undertaking the complex,
face-to-face, and dull political work that produces real change in government.
This is the important point made by Zeynep Tufekci, a fellow at the Center for
Information Technology Policy at Princeton University, who writes that 'Before
the Internet, the tedious work of organizing that was required to circumvent
censorship or to organize a protest also helped build infrastructure for
decision making and strategies for sustaining momentum. Now movements can rush
past that step, often to their own detriment.' ''

Daniel Brumberg, a democracy expert at Georgetown University and the United
States Institute of Peace, points out that the most successful Square People in
the Arab world, who forged a whole new constitution, are in Tunisia, which is
the Arab country that had ''the most robust civil society institutions --
especially a powerful labor union federation, as well as business, human rights
and lawyers associations -- that could arbitrate between the secular and
religious factions,'' who had come together in the square to oust Tunisia's
dictator. Tunisia also benefited from an army that stayed out of politics and
the fact that the secular and Islamist forces had a balance of power, requiring
them to be inclusive of one another.

I'm encouraged by the many government-monitoring civil society groups that have
emerged in Ukraine to make sure that the will of its Square People will not be
stolen. Whether Ukraine's Square People can also develop the inclusive politics
-- to respect the views of the more pro-Russia population in the East -- remains
to be seen. Without Square People, no change is possible in these countries, but
without civil society institutions and inclusive politics, no change is
sustainable.



                              
 Officials Cast Wide Net in Monitoring Occupy Protests

 

When the Occupy protests spread across the country three years ago, state and
local law enforcement officials went on alert. In Milwaukee, officials reported
that a group intended to sing holiday carols at ''an undisclosed location of
'high visibility.' '' In Tennessee, an intelligence analyst sought information
about whether groups concerned with animals, war, abortion or the Earth had been
involved in protests.

And in Washington, as officials braced for a tent encampment on the National
Mall, their counterparts elsewhere sent along warnings: a link to a video of
Kansas City activists who talked of occupying congressional offices and a tip
that 15 to 20 protesters from Boston were en route. ''None of the people are
known to be troublemakers,'' one official wrote in an email.

The communications, distributed by people working with counterterrorism and
intelligence-sharing offices known as fusion centers, were among about 4,000
pages of unclassified emails and reports obtained through freedom of information
requests by lawyers who represented Occupy participants and provided the
documents to The New York Times. They offer details of the scrutiny in 2011 and
2012 by law enforcement officers, federal officials, security contractors,
military employees and even people at a retail trade association. The monitoring
appears similar to that conducted by F.B.I. counterterrorism officials, which
was previously reported.

In many cases, law enforcement officials appeared to simply assemble or copy
lists of protests or related activities, sometimes maintaining tallies of how
many people might show up. They also noted appearances by prominent Occupy
supporters and advised other officials about what -- or whom -- to watch for,
according to the newly disclosed documents.

The files did not show any evidence of phone or email surveillance; instead,
much of the material was acquired from social media, publicly disseminated
information and reports by police officers or others. While a Homeland Security
bulletin in October 2011 warned that protests could be disruptive or violent,
some civil liberties advocates are concerned about the monitoring of lawful
political activities tied to the Occupy movement. Homeland Security officials
acknowledged that the movement, which criticized the financial system as
undemocratic, was ''mostly peaceful.''

''People must have the ability to speak out freely to express a dissenting view
without the fear that the government will treat them as enemies of the state,''
said Mara Verheyden-Hilliard of the Partnership for Civil Justice Fund, which
obtained the documents.

The nation's 78 fusion centers -- which have received hundreds of millions of
dollars from the Department of Homeland Security and other federal agencies, as
well as money from state governments -- are run by state and local authorities.
They were created after the 2001 Qaeda attacks to share information about
terrorism or other national security threats, but have provided little of value
related to that mission, a Senate subcommittee report concluded in 2012. Many
centers, which can involve dozens of officials from police and fire departments,
federal agencies and private companies, now focus on more routine criminal
activity.

Peter Swire, a law and ethics professor at Georgia Tech who recently served on
President Obama's Review Group on Intelligence and Communications Technologies,
said that as the government concentrated on fighting terrorism, guidelines that
had restricted the monitoring of political activity were relaxed. As a result,
he said, even minor offenses like trespassing ''can be enough to trigger
surveillance of political groups.''

Marsha Catron, a spokeswoman for Homeland Security, said that the fusion centers
play an important role in helping law enforcement and emergency responders
understand how to protect people during large public events. She added that the
centers are required to protect privacy and civil liberties. Agencies receiving
Homeland Security grants must follow guidelines similar to those adopted by that
department, which forbid the collection of information ''solely for the purpose
of monitoring activities protected by the U.S. Constitution, such as the First
Amendment-protected freedoms of religion, speech, press, and peaceful assembly
and protest.''

The documents show that people connected to the centers shared information about
individual activists or supporters, and kept track of those who speculated in
social media postings that the centers had been involved when police departments
used force to clear Occupy camps.

They also make clear that the centers appeared to take varying approaches to the
protests. An intelligence officer at the Delaware center responded to an inquiry
about Occupy with an email that said, ''Our fusion center has distanced itself
from the movement because of 1st Amendment rights and because we have not seen
any criminal activity to date.''

Other centers distributed information about the protests, sometimes describing
arrests or disruptive tactics, but often listing apparently lawful, even routine
activities.

A center in Nevada regularly sent out reports from more than a dozen cities that
included descriptions of uneventful demonstrations and a ''rally for jobs and
justice'' with the Rev. Al Sharpton. Officials circulated descriptions of plans
in Seattle for an anti-consumerist flash mob to dance to the rock anthem
''Invincible.'' Others monitored Facebook pages, noting events like a meditation
led by Buddhist monks or a student march with participants dressed as ''zombie
bankers.''

The Boston Regional Intelligence Center, one of the most active centers, issued
scores of bulletins listing hundreds of events including a protest of
''irresponsible lending practices,'' a food drive and multiple ''yoga, faith &
spirituality'' classes.

The reports also listed appearances by people including a professor at the
Harvard Divinity School, the linguist Noam Chomsky and an official at the
American Civil Liberties Union of Massachusetts, who was to discuss the Patriot
Act. Some reports noted that a man scheduled to join in a teach-in at Dewey
Square had written a film about Sacco and Vanzetti and wondered whether he was
''a known/respected figure within the anarchist movement.'' Others described
Bill McKibben, an environmentalist and scholar at Middlebury College, stating,
''McKibben organized a sit-in near the White House in August of this year to
protest construction of a pipeline,'' and was arrested but not charged.

At times, fusion center officials shared information produced by what Homeland
Security calls ''private sector partners.'' For instance, the head of the
Washington police department's intelligence fusion division sent an email to
colleagues before Thanksgiving 2011 with an order to develop a ''one-page
product'' to acquaint commanders with ''the potential threat'' described in a
31-page report prepared by the International Council of Shopping Centers.

The report examined protesters' ''attitude towards retail,'' suggested that
business could be disrupted on the day after Thanksgiving and listed several
''specific known threats.'' They included credit card detractors equipped with
scissors at malls and posters offering ''help for people who want to put an end
to mounting debt and extortionate interest rates with one simple cut'' and a
group of people who had declared on a website that they would ''intentionally
forgo the shopping frenzy.''

Cathy L. Lanier, chief of the Metropolitan Police Department in Washington, said
that officials who shared the report might have done so simply to prepare for
all eventualities. ''I wouldn't consider anything in there as a threat,'' she
said. ''But I can see the implications for planning purposes.''

Military employees also shared Occupy material. Two Defense Department
employees, for example, regularly sent information to the fusion center in
Washington or to a federal official connected to the center. One of them, an
intelligence research specialist working in the threat analysis center of the
Pentagon Force Protection Agency, circulated an email describing Google searches
as ''a very handy intel gathering tool'' to keep tabs on Occupy protests. The
other employee, assigned to the Defense Threat Reduction Agency, which addresses
weapons threats, forwarded an email that included a link to an essay titled
''What Police Should Be Learning From the Occupy Protests.''

Before distributing the message, the employee asked the sender whether it was
''safe'' to visit the site without hiding his computer's identity.



                              
 Protesters Urge Guggenheim to Aid Abu Dhabi Workers

 

Protesters critical of the Guggenheim Museum's planned franchise in Abu Dhabi
smuggled artworks into the museum on Saturday evening, placing them in an
exhibit of Italian Futurism.

The art created by the group, Global Ultra Luxury Faction, known as G.U.L.F.,
bore a stylistic resemblance to the museum's work but also listed names of some
of the institution's board of trustees.

As about 40 protesters spread through the multilevel museum, a voice boomed
across the open rotunda: ''No justice, no art.''

The intervention staged by G.U.L.F., which lasted about 15 minutes, was part of
a growing protest of labor conditions on Saadiyat Island, off the coast of Abu
Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates. The Frank Gehry-designed Guggenheim will soon
be built there, alongside an under-construction branch of the Louvre museum and
a recently completed campus of New York University. The group called on museum
officials to ensure that workers there are treated fairly.

Some museum visitors seemed bewildered to encounter a protest inside one of New
York City's leading cultural institutions, but security guards were less
surprised; the protest on Saturday was the third since February to take place
inside the museum. Guards quickly ejected protesters and ripped down the
unsanctioned art.

Museum protests are the latest tactic employed by groups critical of the
Guggenheim's project: The highly visible spectacles are meant to draw attention
to a campaign that has been waged more quietly for years.

Much of the work on Saadiyat Island, a luxury enclave being developed by the
Emirates government, is done by foreign migrants, who are required to pay large
recruitment and transit fees, critics say. In addition, the critics add,
employers often seize the workers' passports, house them in substandard
conditions and pay them less than expected, all while enforcing demanding work
schedules.

A statement from the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation said that strengthening
labor protections was a museum priority.

''The recent reports that allege continued worker mistreatment at Saadiyat
Island are disturbing and should give anyone pause,'' the statement said,
adding: ''The Guggenheim is working closely with our partners in Abu Dhabi at
the highest levels to continue to improve workers welfare practices.''

It is unclear, however, how much influence the museum might wield in a project
that is being led by the Emirates government.

The plight of workers in Abu Dhabi recently received widespread attention after
The New York Times reported that laborers helping to build the N.Y.U. campus
said that they had been subject to police raids, beatings and deportations after
going on strike.

The university apologized, but it remains to be seen whether that remorse will
have any effect in the Emirates, where workers have few rights and dissent is
considered subversive. A company in the Emirates that prints copies of The New
York Times omitted the story about the workers from editions last week.

Criticism over conditions on Saadiyat Island dates back at least to 2009, when
Human Rights Watch said in a report that migrant workers faced ''severe
exploitation and abuse.''

The following year, 43 artists sent a letter to the Guggenheim asking that the
foundation protect workers building the museum. In 2013 a group called Gulf
Labor, which is connected to G.U.L.F., called upon cultural institutions to help
migrant workers secure rights.

The first protest inside the museum took place in February when participants
blew a bugle and distributed leaflets. In March, protesters scattered thousands
of bills of fake currency bearing the slogan ''speculative global museum.''

That month activists, including some with Occupy Museums, an Occupy Wall Street
offshoot, also projected images of dollar bills onto the facade of the museum.
And protesters began a satirical website, globalguggenheim.org, that is
published in six languages and promotes campaigns criticizing the Abu Dhabi
project.



                              
 Will Jonny Be Good? Hell and Heaven Wager

 

Once upon a time, Rattlestick Playwrights Theater and Rising Phoenix Repertory
mounted ''A Fable,'' a saggy, perplexing parable by Rattlestick's artistic
director, David Van Asselt. Imagine shredding the scripts of August Strindberg's
''A Dream Play'' and Bertolt Brecht's ''A Man's a Man'' and forcing them into a
Vitamix with the Book of Job, Voltaire's ''Candide'' and a couple of Occupy Wall
Street blog posts. Bottoms up?

At the Cherry Lane Theater, the show opens on the island of Tahooty, as soldiers
overpower a farming family, maiming the father, murdering the mother and
gang-raping the daughter, Chandra. (I don't recall quite so much sexual violence
in ''The Tortoise and the Hare'' or ''The Fox and the Grapes.'') This brutality
is simply an excuse for the devilish Luke (Gordon Joseph Weiss) and the seraphic
Angela (Samantha Soule) to have a little chat about the human soul. Spotting a
laggard soldier, Jonny (Hubert Point-Du Jour), they agree to a bet. Will Luke
tempt him to evil or will Angela win him to goodness?

A laborious series of episodes follows. Jonny tries to heal the ravished
daughter, then inexplicably deserts her. He turns briefly to a life of crime,
then finds himself homeless. He has a booming career in finance, then makes a
sudden turn into politics. The plot drags on, repeating the same conflicts and
the same semimystical claptrap, as when Jonny tells Luke, ''You can't seem to
get it through your head that there is more to life than the gratification of
our senses.''

Maybe, but would it be so bad to gratify those senses just a little? Under
Daniel Talbott's direction, the lights are stark and the costumes and set
strangely ugly, particularly when projections shine queasily onto the brick
beneath. Between scenes, actors race around, moving painted flats into place
without ever really creating a sense of place or occasion. There is music by the
respected composer Elizabeth Swados. The cast sings it without much feeling. Or
tunefulness.

Mr. Point-Du Jour, who appeared last season in ''The Model Apartment,'' has
wide, moony eyes and a sweet face. You'd like to care about him, but Jonny's
actions are so incomprehensible that you soon give up worrying over his fate.
Then again, at least he's given some action. Chandra (Dawn-Lyen Gardner) has
little more to do than preen and suffer. Mr. Weiss is a boastful, mumbling Luke;
Ms. Soule fares better as Angela, somehow grounding the character even as she
has to slide down a firehouse pole while wearing glossy leggings and a white
bustier.

All the characters, earthly and unearthly, remain one-dimensional, which is
appropriate to a fable or allegory. But it's never really clear just what Mr.
Van Asselt wants to tell us. His thematic concerns become lost in the parade of
scenes. The play never clarifies who gets Jonny's soul or whether humans are
inherently good or bad. Ultimately, power, greed and corruption are pitted
against faith and love. The moral of the story: No one wins.

A Fable

By David Van Asselt; directed by Daniel Talbott; songs and music by Elizabeth
Swados; sets by John McDermott; costumes by Tristan Raines; lighting by Joel
Moritz; projections by Kaitlyn Pietras; sound by Janie Bullard; hair/makeup
design by Caitlin Conci; fight director, Unkledave's Fight-House; music
arrangements and direction by Trevor Bachman; stage manager, Andrew Slater;
production manager, David Nelson. Presented by piece by piece productions and
Rising Phoenix Repertory, in association with Rattlestick Playwrights Theater.
At the Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, West Village; 866-811-4111,
rattlestick.org. Through June 28. Running time: 2 hours 30 minutes.

WITH: Edward Carnevale (Sergeant Chuckles/Rocky Fug), Liza Fernandez
(Want/Mother/Mercy), Dawn-Lyen Gardner (Chandra), Maxwell Hamilton
(Biff/Soldier), Jerry Matz (Uncle/Fourhire), Hubert Point-Du Jour (Jonny),
Eileen Rivera (Molly/Aunt), Pamela Shaw (Hallie Burton/Elena/Cherry Worms),
Sarah Shaefer (Secretary/Woman/Ensemble), Samantha Soule (Angela), Alok Tewari
(Father), Gordon Joseph Weiss (Luke) and Sanford Wilson (Collin/Bill
Milkem/Young Man).



                              
 In Spanish Riots, Anguish of Those Recovery Forgot

 

BARCELONA, Spain -- Four nights of rioting here in Spain's tourism capital have
highlighted the country's persistent social tensions and belied signs of relief
from a fragile economic recovery, which has yet to alleviate rampant
joblessness.

The rioting started on Monday when Barcelona's City Hall ordered the eviction of
squatters from Can Vies, a warehouse abandoned by the city's transport
authority. The site, in the Sants district, was taken over by squatters 17 years
ago and turned into a makeshift social center. City officials said they wanted
to reclaim the site for a park.

After attempts to clear the site, protesters threw stones, barricaded streets,
smashed bank and shop windows, and set fire to garbage containers and a
television van. The rioting has since spread to other parts of the city, and
police officers have arrested scores of people.

On Friday, City Hall backed down and said in a statement that plans for the
demolition of the site would be halted to help ''favor a climate of dialogue.''
The squatters nonetheless pledged to continue their protests and to rebuild the
half-destroyed center over the weekend.

Joan Maria Solé, deputy director of the Federation of Neighborhood Associations
of Barcelona, said the attempt to replace the Can Vies building with ''a
hypothetical park or green area'' showed that City Hall was insensitive to the
widening income gap among residents.

Since hosting the Olympic Games in 1992, Barcelona has become one of Europe's
biggest tourism hubs, with a record 7.5 million visitors last year. The rise in
tourism has helped Barcelona weather the economic crisis that hit Spain in 2008
better than many cities. Over all, the city of Barcelona's unemployment rate is
nearly 18 percent, roughly 8 percentage points lower than the national average,
although there are big discrepancies between the city's poorest and richest
neighborhoods.

''Barcelona is full of contradictions, especially between those who are now
unemployed and those who are just focused on earning even more from tourism,''
Mr. Solé said. Can Vies, he added, ''is unfortunately a more realistic image of
Barcelona than the brand City Hall tries to sell.''

The rioting this week echoed similar episodes elsewhere in Spain and in Turkey,
where plans by Istanbul's mayor to redevelop a popular public square set off
weeks of protests last year. In January, the Gamonal district of Burgos, in
northern Spain, was the scene of prolonged street fighting over plans by City
Hall to remodel an avenue and remove many of its free parking spaces at a time
of deep cuts in other areas of public spending. The plan was eventually shelved.

Mr. Solé described Can Vies as ''something of a symbol for the deprived.'' As in
Burgos, he added, ''it is the kind of spark that can set ablaze a fire that has
long been simmering.''

Joan Carles Gallego, the head of the Catalan branch of the Workers' Commissions,
one of the two main trade unions in Spain, said the fighting over Can Vies
reflected growing frustration in Barcelona as investors flock back to Spain but
unemployment remains nearly 26 percent. Youth unemployment is roughly double
that. ''The message is that our economy is recovering, but most people aren't
feeling that recovery,'' Mr. Gallego said. In the coming months, he warned,
''the social conflict could get more radical because people won't want to be
left further behind.''

Alfredo Pastor, an economics professor at the IESE business school in Barcelona,
said that ''from an outsider's perspective, the question might be how this has
not happened more in a country of 26 percent unemployment.'' The problem for
Spain, he said, is that ''unemployment is likely to be the last part of our
economy to recover.''

Three years ago, a youth-led movement took over Puerta del Sol in downtown
Madrid, in a giant protest against Spain's establishment that was a precursor to
Occupy Wall Street and similar movements.

While anti-austerity protests have since continued across Spain, they have been
on a smaller scale. Still, Podemos, a newly formed political party that has
vowed to replace Spain's established parties, managed to win almost 8 percent of
the Spanish vote in elections to the European Parliament last Sunday.



                              


 

Our next selection for the Big City Book Club will take us to Queens in the
middle of the 20th century and right up to the present moment -- to a world of
communists and counterculturalists, of Stalinists and Occupy Wall Street.

We'll be reading, as you may have guessed, Jonathan Lethem's latest novel, the
expansive ''Dissident Gardens.'' Mr. Lethem is the author of the much-loved,
genre-bending New York novels ''Motherless Brooklyn'' and ''Fortress of
Solitude.''

The online discussion will take place on Tuesday, Oct. 22, at 6:30 p.m., on the
City Room blog.

To join the club and receive regular e-mail updates, visit:
nytimes.com/marketing/bigcitybookclub/



                              


 

Our next selection for the Big City Book Club will take us to Queens in the
middle of the 20th century and right up to the present moment -- to a world of
communists and counterculturalists, of Stalinists and Occupy Wall Street.

We'll be reading, as you may have guessed, Jonathan Lethem's latest novel, the
expansive ''Dissident Gardens.'' Mr. Lethem is the author of the much-loved,
genre-bending New York novels ''Motherless Brooklyn'' and ''Fortress of
Solitude.''

The online discussion will take place on Tuesday, Oct. 22, at 6:30 p.m., on the
City Room blog.

To join the club and receive regular e-mail updates, visit:
nytimes.com/marketing/bigcitybookclub/



                              


 

Our next selection for the Big City Book Club will take us to Queens in the
middle of the 20th century and right up to the present moment -- to a world of
communists and counterculturalists, of Stalinists and Occupy Wall Street.

We'll be reading, as you may have guessed, Jonathan Lethem's latest novel, the
expansive ''Dissident Gardens.'' Mr. Lethem is the author of the much-loved,
genre-bending New York novels ''Motherless Brooklyn'' and ''Fortress of
Solitude.''

The online discussion will take place on Tuesday, Oct. 22, at 6:30 p.m., on the
City Room blog.

To join the club and receive regular e-mail updates, visit:
nytimes.com/marketing/bigcitybookclub/



                              
 At Drone Conference, Talk of Morals and Toys

 

The people came for the technology, certainly, and for the flying demonstrations
they were promised. They came to find the hobbyists and dreamers who shared
their vision of drones as a force of good -- or at least good business.

They did not come for this.

''Find a partner,'' a philosophy professor instructed on Friday from the stage
at the Drones and Aerial Robotics Conference, held at New York University. ''I
would like you to look him or her in the eyes for just five seconds.''

Most of the dozens in attendance initially refused. The teacher pleaded until
the partnering was complete. Then the counting began, and never seemed to end.
At least one attendee appeared to surrender midway, looking away to compose a
Twitter message after about three seconds.

''You feel that little quiver in your stomach?'' the professor, John Kaag of the
University of Massachusetts, Lowell, asked when it was over. ''It's called a
sign of being human. Drones don't feel that.''

It has been a trying period for defenders of the drone. Public perception has
been shaped in large part by the Obama administration's use of drones in
counterterrorism efforts, and civil liberties advocates have long decried the
drone's seemingly boundless capacity to restrict privacy.

Then there was the blemish for local hobbyists last week, when a drone was said
to have crashed near Grand Central Terminal, narrowly missing a pedestrian.

And so, at times on Friday, the forum seemed equal parts acknowledgment of the
technology's perils and a self-affirmation exercise for its proponents, who have
cited the potential of drones to improve agriculture practices and monitor
endangered species, among other applications.

Speakers appeared intent on softening the drone's image -- likening it to a
kite, a cellphone, a pet on a leash.

Others drew parallels to the work of Steve Jobs and the Wright brothers.

One presenter, Raphael Pirker, brought his lawyer on stage. Mr. Pirker, who has
used remote flying devices to capture sweeping videos of landmarks, is
contesting thousands of dollars in fines sought by the Federal Aviation
Administration over a drone flight at the University of Virginia.

The conference, which was to include a ''drone show'' on Friday night, will
continue through Sunday. The schedule for Saturday suggested a focus on legal
issues. On Sunday, participants will form small groups charged with
''programming and playing with'' toy drones.

So far the gathering has attracted a diverse audience.

Nelson and Johanna Farr, who said they were starting an aerial photography
program, traveled from Guatemala, spending about $1,000 each for round-trip
tickets.

Riley Morgan, 14, from the Upper East Side, cut short an interview to find a
seat for a panel called ''Life Under Drones.'' Earlier, Riley had been clutching
a quadcopter, a device about the size of his midsection, that he had made
himself. He said he had flown it in Central Park and on Randalls Island.

''People are confusing these things with the predator drones,'' he said, adding
that he had recently used his device to record a friend's birthday party.
''They're not something I use to spy on people.''

But the checkered reputation of drones remained the day's subtext. An organizer
of the conference, in his introduction to Professor Kaag's presentation,
wondered if drone supporters had been ''drinking some kind of unmanned
Kool-Aid.''

Professor Kaag, who has written about the moral hazards of drones, paused at one
point to declare his session ''a real killjoy.''

''I think they're cool too, O.K.?'' he said. ''But slow down.''

In front of the building where the conference was held, across the street from
Washington Square Park, a group called the Granny Peace Brigade staged a small
protest featuring a replica of a drone.

''Drones explode people and do not help us make friends,'' read a sign held by
Alice Sturm Sutter, 65, from Washington Heights.

Ms. Sutter, who worked in a medical tent in Zuccotti Park during the Occupy Wall
Street protests in 2011, said she feared that expanded drone use could allow the
Police Department to target activists. (The police were later summoned on Friday
when the protesters refused to move down the sidewalk, away from the building
entrance, as directed by university security.)

Nearby, Terry and Belinda Kilby, from Baltimore, appeared impervious to the
disturbance. They came in part to promote a book of ''drone art'' -- images shot
using the devices -- and to speak at a panel on Saturday.

The privacy threat of drones for ordinary citizens had been overstated, they
said.

''Unless you're super famous, like Paris Hilton,'' Ms. Kilby said, ''we're just
not that interested in following.''



                              


 

Our next selection for the Big City Book Club will take us to Queens in the
middle of the 20th century and right up to the present moment -- to a world of
communists and counterculturalists, of Stalinists and Occupy Wall Street.

We'll be reading Jonathan Lethem's latest novel, the expansive ''Dissident
Gardens.'' Mr. Lethem is the author of the much-loved, genre-bending New York
novels ''Motherless Brooklyn'' and ''Fortress of Solitude.''

The online discussion will take place on Tuesday, Oct. 22, at 6:30 p.m., on the
City Room blog.

To join the club and receive regular e-mail updates, visit:
nytimes.com/marketing/bigcitybookclub/



                              
 Predictions for Health, Science and Life

 

In the early 21st century, we take for granted a pace of change that can leave
the near-miraculous seeming unremarkable but also upend ways of life with little
warning. Scientists, professors and others peer around the corner to offer their
take at what might be coming next.

Unbearable Lightness of Economy

By TOMAS SEDLACEK

Czech economist, author of ''Economics of Good and Evil''

Our habitat will be very abstract. Prolong the trend from I.B.M. (sold things
that you could knock on) through Microsoft (sells abstract software, but you can
still box and sell the product) to Google (cannot be ''boxed'' and does not sell
to end customers, if anything, it ''sells'' customers). More money will be made
in psychological demand creation than in classical supply creation.
Industrialized entertainment (the oxymoronic ''entertainment industry'') will
gain prominence. The economy will be playful, imaginary, more childlike. The
distant will become even nearer, and nearness will continue to disappear. A
generation ago our conversations did not need the market (we did not ''pay'' for
them). Today a single phone call indirectly employs thousands -- fueling the
economy by closing the very gaps specialization itself created.

A People App for City Crowds

By GREG LINDSAY

Co-director of the World Policy Institute's Emergent Cities Project

I caught a glimpse of the city of the future last fall while crossing the street
in San Francisco. I recognized someone I'd never seen striding toward me --
because my iPhone warned me he was coming. Paul Davison runs Highlight, an app
that maps users' Facebook profiles to their phones' GPS, producing a social
network tethered to the sidewalks rather than splayed across cyberspace. If this
century truly belongs to the city -- and by its midpoint, four in five of us
will live in one -- then how should we best bring another few dozen cycles of
Moore's Law to bear on it? More than highways or skyscrapers, cities are the
product of our personal encounters. Rather than wire our cities with sensors and
run them from hidden control rooms, give me an app that can pick a new face out
of a crowd -- call it ''serendipity-as-a-service.''

The Future of the Present

By THOM MAYNE

Pritzker Prize-winning architect, U.C.L.A. professor of architecture and urban
design

I would challenge the whole idea of the future as a topic of interest. We're
completely involved in the present. When you're looking at cities today, at
metropolises like São Paulo, Beijing, Tokyo, we can't grasp the complexity of
issues that form these huge aggregates of humanity. The notion of the future in
an intellectual and philosophical way would connect to some sort of optimism; I
would locate that in the 1950s and 60s, when in the United States there was
enormous optimism for the future. We live at a time when, if it's not
pessimistic, it's not optimistic. The present takes up so much space and oxygen
there isn't a lot of energy left over to deal with future or past. What next?
We're going to internalize this information technology, so we have more space,
so we can control this overinvestment in the present.

Designing a Clean Sky for Beijing

By DAAN ROOSEGAARDE

Dutch digital artist, founder of the design firm Studio Roosegaarde

As a young design firm based in the Netherlands and Shanghai, we've been working
on interactive designs like a sustainable dance floor which generates
electricity when you dance, and a smart highway, roads which generate their own
light. We've always been fascinated with what happens when technology jumps out
of that computer screen, but also how can we make cities feel more human again.
One of the dreams I have is to play with smog. In Beijing, the smog is literally
off scale. The American Embassy cannot even measure it. We're working on a sort
of electromagnetic field on the ground which literally pulls it down to the
surface where we can clean it and scrape it away. This creates gigantic holes of
clean air in the sky. These kind of things are landscape art in a very radical
Dutch way. It's time to upgrade our reality.

Looking for Earth's Twins

By SARA SEAGER

Professor of planetary science and physics at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology

In the next few decades I predict we will send an unmanned space craft beyond
the Solar System to the nearest Earth-like planet. We must first find the other
Earths -- this endeavor is also in the making. Although over 1,000 exoplanets
(planets orbiting stars other than the sun) have been discovered in the past two
decades, the true Earth twins around nearby sun-like stars remain just out of
reach. A sun-like star is 10 billion times brighter than an Earth-like planet,
and finding the other Earth is like looking for a firefly adjacent to a search
light, when both are 2,500 miles away. We need to block out the starlight to
directly image the Earth-like planet. Sound futuristic? The human drive to find
other Earths and to travel in space appears to be so fundamental that if the
Earth twins are out there we will find them and find a way to go to them.

The Greening of Architecture

By JEANNE GANG

Architect, founder of Studio Gang Architects of Chicago

Digital technologies have provided architecture with liberating design tools
that have yielded novel forms and fabrication methods. In the next few decades
we will witness designers expanding their use of technology in ways that will
make architecture greener and more responsive to its users. At the city scale,
design will move toward systemic solutions rather than one-off,
resource-draining projects. On a smaller scale, perhaps more profoundly
impactful, there will be a move toward greater transparency in building
materials. Just as the labeling revolution has transformed the food industry,
declaring the content of building materials and the chemicals used in their
production will change the way we design and choose the environments we inhabit.
This will lead to large-scale change that will improve the health of the planet.

A Place for the Disabled in China

By MENG WEINA

Founder of Huiling, an advocacy group for the mentally disabled in China

China's economic reform has touched on every aspect of society, and in my area
there have been deep changes, too. But the wall we cannot get around is the
political system. When will social organizations be allowed to register,
properly, with legal protections? When will special-needs children be able
easily to attend regular schools? When will mentally disabled adults not be
kidnapped and sold as slaves? So while the government is spending a lot of money
on the disabled, because it isn't willing to create a social system that would
allow its money to work, it's actually wasting a lot of money. The government
hasn't understood that the disabled need to grow up in society, not outside it.
I'm nearly 60, and I feel that when it comes to building a civilized, moral
society, change is too slow, not too fast. I don't think I'll live to see it.

The Coming Health Revolutions

By JULIO FRENK

Dean of the Harvard School of Public Health

Since the beginning of the 20th century, we have seen the most profound
transformation in human health in history. Humankind achieved larger gains in
life expectancy than in all previously accumulated history. Where once people
died young, mostly from infections, today we have both infectious pandemics,
like AIDS, and new pandemics, like obesity, that people can increasingly live
with. Still, climate change has enormous health consequences, as do unhealthy
lifestyles and persistent humanitarian crises. There are four revolutions to
come. In the life sciences, we're learning the intimate functioning of the body.
Mobile technology will expand access to health information and care. New
managerial concepts are dealing with corporate complexity. And, increasingly,
the world recognizes health as a fundamental human right, not a privilege.

'Prohibition' for Sports Drugs

By JOHN HOBERMAN

University of Texas professor, expert on drug use in sports

The doping epidemic in Olympic and professional sports is out of control. There
is an unprecedented crisis of confidence among leading anti-doping officials.
This has produced calls to legalize doping drugs, on the false assumption that
doping can be made a medically safe procedure. After all, some say, there is
widespread use of performance-enhancing drugs by ordinary citizens. But the
prohibitionist condemnation of ''drug'' use is too strong to permit the
legalization of sports doping. Sports leagues are tightening drug testing.
Cycling is under crushing pressure to eliminate doping. Modern society has
demonstrated it will not tolerate unregulated athletic doping, because it wants
to preserve sport's cultural ideals. This contest between today's libertarian
pharmacology and the anti-doping ethos will persist for many years to come.

A New Revolution in China?

By WANG HUI

Professor, Tsinghua University, specialist in Chinese thought, modernity and the
West

Many people have predicted an ''Arab Spring'' or an ''Occupy Wall Street'' for
China. But the expected revolution hasn't occurred. Not because social conflict
doesn't exist or there are no problems with China's development. I disagree with
the prediction that China will collapse. I think China is in the process of
rising. There is still much room for industrial transfer. Upgrading,
urbanization and industrialization will continue. Crises, setbacks and the
intensification of social contradictions don't change this; they are byproducts
of it. But economic growth will not resolve social contradictions. In other
words, social conflict in China may intensify, not because it is about to
collapse, but because it is moving up in the world system. That's why the
question of changing the mode of development has become so urgent.

College Online -- Everything but the Campus

By MARY SUE COLEMAN

President, University of MichiganMassive open online courses (MOOCs) are the
current buzz in higher education, with good reason. They offer students from
India, Brazil, Ghana and beyond remarkable opportunities to learn from scholars
worldwide. This sharing of knowledge is a profoundly democratic, and
democratizing, use of technology. For every MOOC with 150,000 enrolled students,
however, higher education must continue to deliver the unique experience of a
campus. No other chapter in life parallels the exploration, risk-taking and
freedom -- both intellectual and personal -- of college. Higher education must
use technology to share knowledge as broadly as possible, while also providing
students with an atmosphere that is engaging, palpable and unlike any other.
Innovations in technology may enrich the on-campus experiences, but cannot
replace them.



                              


 

Our next selection for the Big City Book Club will take us to Queens in the
middle of the 20th century and right up to the present -- to a world of
communists and counterculturalists, of Stalinists and Occupy Wall Street.

We'll be reading Jonathan Lethem's latest novel, the expansive ''Dissident
Gardens.'' Mr. Lethem is the author of the genre-bending New York novels
''Motherless Brooklyn'' and ''Fortress of Solitude.''

The online discussion will take place on Tuesday, Oct. 22, at 6:30 p.m., on the
City Room blog.

To join the club and receive regular e-mail updates, visit:
nytimes.com/marketing/bigcitybookclub/



                              
 Seeking Online Refuge From Spying Eyes

 

Consider this scene in ''The Circle,'' Dave Eggers's new novel that imagines a
dystopian future dominated by an omnipotent social networking company: Mae, the
young protagonist, tries to unplug from her hypernetworked life to go on a
covert, solitary kayaking trip. But when she returns to shore, she is greeted by
police officers who have been alerted to her excursion by several hidden
cameras. She quickly realizes that very little in her life isn't recorded,
tracked and analyzed.

It's a troubling image, one that some fear might not be limited to works of
fiction. In fact, some elements of Mae's scenario have emerged recently in the
news. There was the report that the National Security Agency can create
sophisticated maps of some people's personal information and social connections.
There were the recent changes to Facebook's privacy settings that will no longer
allow users to hide their profiles from public searches. In addition, Google
recently revealed that it was considering using anonymous identifiers to track
browsing habits online, raising hackles among privacy advocates who have
described it as ''the new way they will identify you 24/7.''

And, at the same time, drones are becoming commonplace -- used by the government
in counterterrorism efforts and by hobbyists -- prompting discussions about the
long-term impact on privacy.

These developments, among others, have spurred the creation of a handful of
applications and services intended to give people respite and refuge from
surveillance, both online and off. They have a simple and common goal: to create
ways for people to use the Internet and to communicate online without
surveillance.

Nadim Kobeissi, a security adviser in Montreal who works on an encrypted-message
service called Cryptocat, said the security and hacker circles of which he is a
part have long suspected that the government is listening in on online
conversations and exchanges but ''have never been able to prove it.'' He added:
''It's been a worst-case-scenario prediction that all turned out to be true, to
a worrying extent.''

If nothing else, the N.S.A. leaks and disclosures have brought these issues
front and center for many people, myself included, who are troubled by how much
of our daily and online interaction is concentrated in and around a handful of
companies that have funneled data to the N.S.A.

''It's sad that this is the proverbial kick in the butt that needs to bring
awareness to this concept,'' said Harlo Holmes, who works for the Guardian
Project, a group that is building several anti-surveillance and privacy
applications.

Ms. Holmes says interest has been surging in the Guardian Project's services,
which include tools that let people make phone calls over the Internet which the
organization says cannot be recorded. More than a million people have downloaded
an app called Orbot that allows users to send e-mails anonymously through mobile
devices.

She said it was common to assume that people who want to avoid detection online
are doing illicit things, like trying to buy drugs or look up illegal content --
and that may happen. But it is certainly not the intent.

She says the Guardian Project and its peers are built for people who live under
governments that don't allow access to the Web or to certain apps, as well as
for people who simply don't like the idea of their online activity being tracked
and monitored. Ms. Holmes says that most of the tools are used by people in
totalitarian states. ''We get a lot of feedback from people who use it to get
access to blogs and sites they can't access because of a firewall,'' she said,
referring, for example, to a government blocking access to Twitter.

Most of these services are still relatively small. For example, Cryptocat, the
encrypted-message service, typically sees peaks of around 20,000 simultaneous
users. In recent months, that number has grown to 27,000. But it's a far cry
from the hundreds of thousands, or even millions, that mainstream social
networking tools and services can claim.

''As good as all of our intentions are, whatever looks good and is user-friendly
gets critical mass,'' she said. ''That is what is going to take off.''

But those who work on these services say they don't have to compete directly
with the Facebooks, Twitters and Googles of the world. They just have to offer
an alternative, independent space where people can interact if and when they
need to.

Dan Phiffer works on a project called Occupy.here that gives people access to a
private messaging forum by creating small, localized pockets of Internet access.
People who are nearby and whose laptops or mobile devices detect the network are
directed to a discussion board where they can interact. Inspired by the Occupy
Wall Street protests in 2011, the idea was to allow activists and organizers to
interact in a way that would be hard for police officers to track.

His project is naturally resistant to Internet surveillance, ''but its original
purpose was not for countersurveillance,'' he said. ''What I am trying to do is
build alternative online spaces for supporting activists and those who might be
sympathetic to their cause.''

Mr. Phiffer also thinks that the project can have much larger implications and
motivate ''broader political engagement by offering a tool for people who are
tired of the disregard of their civil liberties by their government.''

Of course, there is no guarantee that the Guardian Project, Mr. Kobeissi's
project, or any others like it are safe from being broken into by a government
or a hacker or another entity. But Mr. Kobeissi said that there was an upside to
all of the disturbing security disclosures: at least now, he said, the security
world can deal with the information disclosed in leaks ''on a per-revelation
basis'' to make its own offerings stronger and more secure.

The truth, he said, is that ''we are developing software in an unknown
environment, even though we know so much about the threats being posed.''

''The specifics are always changing,'' he added.

Tools like Cryptocat, he said, are just the impetus for a larger discussion.
''It's not an answer by itself,'' he said. ''It is a combination of privacy and
technology, democratic movement and political discussion that it is not
acceptable to use the Internet as a surveillance medium.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.



                              
 More Than a Decade After 9/11, a Bull Market for Barriers and
Checkpoints

 

When United Airlines Flight 175 hit the South Tower, the windows in Mark
Scherzer's apartment collapsed inward in a fine spray of glass shards. Then the
tower collapsed and a metal beam flew in, true as an arrow. Dust, inches thick,
covered his floors, bed and shelves.

Mr. Scherzer, 62, and his partner became vagabonds for months after Sept. 11,
relying on the kindness and couches of friends.

Still Mr. Scherzer, a native son of the Bronx, could not wait to return to his
apartment on Cedar Street, a few feet from ground zero. This was home, and he
rebuilt it. What he cannot countenance is what he sees when he looks outside his
window, which is to say fear's stockade.

The Police Department now refers to his neighborhood as ''the World Trade Center
campus,'' as if it were an arid exercise in corporate security.

Step outside and you tumble into rivers of tourists herded this way and that,
from fleets of buses, through serried rows of fences and tents to the memorial.

There are security towers and dozens of police officers, some possessing
impressive armament.

The construction will end. But the plan for the remade streets could offer a
cyborg vision of this city, with metal barriers, sally ports, checkpoints and
three-foot-high barriers.

Undergo a security check and you can obtain a ''Trusted Access'' certificate and
sidestep the worst of it. You can ride a bike, if you're prepared to dismount
and let dogs sniff you.

It's as if a thief crept in and stole away with our hurly-burly anarchic
identity.

''Security cannot be the be-all and end-all of how we organize our lives,'' said
Mr. Scherzer, who has joined his neighbors in suing to block the
''fortresslike'' plans for his neighborhood. ''There is a constant sense of
police presence -- everything is observed, every movement regulated.

''New York has never been that for me.''

In 2003, hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers took to the streets to protest our
entry into the Iraq war; the police penned them so closely as to call to mind a
corset yanked tight on democracy.

The Police Department now runs long rows of cars through the streets, lights
blinking. We're told it scares terrorists. It certainly rattles New Yorkers.

''I'm struck by how insecure the security makes me feel,'' says Mary Perillo,
another resident of Cedar Street.

It's as if we're in a crouch and can't stand up straight. Once our marathon was
a joyous conga-like celebration of New York in its hallucinatory glory. Poles in
Greenpoint handed out pirogies and Puerto Rican children in Harlem sprinted
alongside runners. Not after Boston. It was police officers, metal gates, dogs
and more police officers.

As my colleague Juliet Macur wrote, it was as if the race had morphed into a
''26.2-mile crime scene.''

Our security obsessions offer a lunatic sideshow down Broadway from ground zero.
There stands the ''Charging Bull,'' that bronze and virile image of Wall Street
unchained. It stands behind steel police fences.

Every day and night since Occupy Wall Street, two officers guard that bull. Last
week, I saw a couple of fellows from my 70th Precinct in Brooklyn; this weekend
the officers hailed from a precinct on Staten Island.

Neighbors say that during Hurricane Sandy, as the city shuddered and fell dark,
officers remained at their posts, guarding that bronze bull.

I don't mean to sound glib. I watched those towers collapse and that cloud of
cement and biomass and God knows what rolled over me. I coughed for months and
that was the least of it. Fear crawled in and curled up in a corner of my
cranium.

In 2001 I walked through Central Park on a chilly December afternoon, winter's
sun and shadow in play. I peered at our skyline and my mind's eye saw a jetliner
descending into grand prewar buildings. It took several minutes to shake that
image.

Yet we healed.

Rich Roth worked for the Secret Service and has evaluated the stockade plan for
Lower Manhattan for the plaintiffs. He isn't impressed.

''You want to be 100 percent secure? Nothing can do that,'' he says. ''Nothing
they're doing prevents an airliner from coming down. Nothing prevents someone
from setting off a bomb outside the Empire State Building.''

Mr. Scherzer nods at this. He knows the terrible is possible. ''I don't think
the cops have a bad motive, not for a minute,'' he says. ''But to remain New
Yorkers, we cannot live with security as our highest value.''

Live too long in fear's shadow and all becomes darkness.



                              
 SAC Trader Had 'Secret Pipeline' of Information, Prosecutors Say

 

Michael S. Steinberg is ''successful, steady, serious,'' said a lawyer for the
most senior employee at SAC Capital Advisors to be charged with insider trading.
And unlike the hard-charging billionaires who rule Wall Street's top hedge
funds, Mr. Steinberg was a history and philosophy major who started at SAC as a
low-level clerk, the lawyer said.

Federal prosecutors, however, view the trader through a darker lens. Mr.
Steinberg, they said, tapped into a corrupt insider trading conspiracy to make
''big money'' for himself. He also, they say, pushed a lower-level employee at
SAC to provide ''edgy'' and illegal information about technology companies.

Those dueling portrayals of Mr. Steinberg, a 41-year-old trader who was among
SAC's earliest employees, emerged on Wednesday from opening arguments in his
criminal insider trading trial at Federal District Court in Lower Manhattan. Mr.
Steinberg is the first SAC employee to stand trial in the government's
decade-long investigation of the hedge fund, which is run by the billionaire
stock picker Steven A. Cohen.

Mr. Steinberg's trial, which strikes at the heart of that investigation, is
unfolding two weeks after SAC agreed to pay $1.2 billion and plead guilty to
five counts of insider trading violations. The authorities indicted the fund in
July, pointing to a ''systematic'' insider trading scheme that spanned several
employees and more than a decade.

The trial, the authorities contend, will illuminate the culture at SAC that
opened it to such scrutiny. Of the eight SAC employees charged criminally, six
have pleaded guilty to securities fraud.

Mr. Steinberg is accused of trading the stocks of technology companies like Dell
and Nvidia after receiving confidential information about their earnings. He
received this through Jon Horvath, an SAC employee who was plugged into a
network of analysts that shared and traded notes on the companies. The original
sources of the information, employees at Dell and Nvidia, have not been accused
of any wrongdoing.

Mr. Steinberg's lawyer, Barry H. Berke, and the assistant United States
attorney, Antonia M. Apps, delivered opening arguments to a jury of nine women
and three men that included two accountants and a former Postal Service worker.

Ms. Apps outlined the evidence the government would present: emails, phone
records and trading records between Mr. Steinberg, Mr. Horvath and other
analysts. This evidence would provide a ''unique window'' into the world of
insider trading and the ''secret pipeline'' that Mr. Steinberg had into certain
companies, she said.

''The defendant wanted'' inside information, Ms. Apps said, ''and the defendant
got'' it.

For his part, Mr. Berke explained to the jury the world of hedge funds, likening
it to mutual funds, investments that many of the jurors had earlier disclosed
that they owned. He also sought to distance Mr. Steinberg from the sharp-elbowed
world of Wall Street, emphasizing how SAC managed millions of dollars on behalf
of pension funds and universities.

The case, Mr. Berke said, hinges on Mr. Horvath.

The government presented Mr. Horvath as an employee who aimed to please Mr.
Steinberg and who worked hard to provide him with the research and information
he needed to make fruitful trades.

Under pressure to provide ''edgy proprietary information'' of the kind that
would satisfy Mr. Steinberg, the prosecutor said, Mr. Horvath turned to a circle
of friends and analysts that shared information.

As evidence, the government will reference an email from August 2008 in which
Mr. Horvath told Mr. Steinberg that he had ''a 2ndhand read from someone'' at
Dell, adding, ''Please keep to yourself as obviously not well known.''

Mr. Steinberg replied: ''Yes normally we would never divulge data like this, so
please be discreet.''

Mr. Berke sought to undermine Mr. Horvath's significance, saying that he was
''recreating history'' in a desperate attempt to strike a deal with the
government.

The opening remarks came late in the afternoon on the second day of jury
selection. The pool of jury candidates included Occupy Wall Street participants.
Two others disclosed that they had been investigated by the Securities and
Exchange Commission. They were all dismissed.

''I know there are strong views about Wall Street,'' Mr. Berke said as he
wrapped up his opening remarks just after 5 p.m.

Mr. Berke urged the jurors to consider one question: Whether the government
could prove beyond a reasonable doubt that Mr. Steinberg was guilty. Referring
to Mr. Steinberg's family in the gallery, Mr. Berke reminded members of the jury
that they were holding the fate of one man in their hands.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.



                              
 Paul Mayer, 82, Ex-Priest and Peace Activist

 

Paul Mayer, a Jewish-born former Roman Catholic priest who was at the forefront
of peace and social justice campaigns for five decades, for a time working
closely with the radical pacifist priests Philip and Daniel Berrigan, died on
Nov. 22 at his home in East Orange, N.J. He was 82.

His son, Peter, said the cause was brain cancer.

Mr. Mayer converted to Catholicism as a teenager and gave up the priesthood in
1968 to marry a former nun. But he said he still considered himself a priest --
just as he still considered himself a Jew.

''Jesus never stopped being a Jew, and frankly I don't think I could stop being
a Jew even if I wanted to,'' he told the psychotherapist Alan Levin in an
interview for a forthcoming book, ''Crossing the Boundary.''

He wore the priest's collar for the rest of his life. He also became a devotee
of Navajo religious tradition and the philosophy and practice of yoga.

In the 1960s and '70s, Mr. Mayer helped the Berrigan brothers plan some of their
highly publicized antiwar sorties, including the 1968 raid on a draft board
office in Catonsville, Md., to remove and burn draft files in the parking lot
outside. He also coordinated underground support for the Berrigans when they
went into hiding, hunted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation as among its 10
most wanted fugitives.

In 1971, Mr. Mayer was named an unindicted co-conspirator in an alleged plot to
kidnap Henry A. Kissinger, the national security adviser to President Richard M.
Nixon, supposedly to ransom him in exchange for an end to the war in Vietnam.
The defendants contended that the F.B.I. had fabricated the plot with the help
of a paid informer. Mr. Mayer headed the defense committee for those charged in
the case, known as the Harrisburg Seven. While awaiting trial, Mr. Mayer
officiated at the wedding of two of the defendants, the Rev. Philip Berrigan and
an activist nun, Elizabeth McAlister, at the federal detention center in
Danbury, Conn.

The trial, in 1972, ended in a hung jury, after which the government dropped all
but minor charges against Father Berrigan and Sister Elizabeth.

Mr. Mayer was a Benedictine monk for 18 years at St. Paul's Abbey in Newton,
N.J., before being ordained a Catholic priest in the mid-1960s. In 1966 he met
Naomi Lambert, a nun at the time with the order of Medical Mission Sisters,
while traveling in Mexico. They married two years later. By the time the Vatican
relieved him of his priestly duties in 1971, they had had the first of their two
children.

The couple established a commune of sorts, called Project Share, in East Orange,
where they and a group of families lived together and supported one another in
two adjacent six-unit apartment buildings.

His marriage ended in divorce in the 1970s. Besides his son, he is survived by a
daughter, Maria.

Mr. Mayer continued a life of extravagant disregard for conventions. In 1972 he
toured villages in North Vietnam that the Communist authorities said had been
carpet-bombed by American planes. He visited Cuba many times to deliver medical
supplies, in defiance of the United States trade embargo.

In 1973, while heading an American delegation to the World Peace Congress in
Moscow, he caused a stir by criticizing the meeting's sponsor, the Soviet Union,
saying it was waging ''a campaign to silence'' any of its citizens ''who seek to
express their rights.'' In response, his own delegation of activists stripped
him of his leadership role.

Paul Michael Mayer was born in Frankfurt on Feb. 24, 1931, to Ernst and Berthel
Mayer. After Paul and a younger brother, Franz, were expelled from school as
Jews under Nazi decrees, their father, a concert pianist who worked as a
salesman, and their mother, a nurse, immigrated to the United States with their
children in 1938.

Mr. Mayer lived in an orphanage while his parents and younger brother stayed
with relatives for about a year, until they could afford to rent an apartment in
the Washington Heights section of Manhattan.

His decision to convert to Catholicism at 16, he said, reflected a ''driving
adolescent drive to belong.'' The writings of Thomas Merton, a Trappist monk and
Christian mystic, cemented his commitment, he said. After being ordained, he was
a parish priest in Panama.

He took up the cause of social justice when he joined the civil rights march
from Selma to Montgomery, Ala., in 1965. Almost 50 years later the passion had
not subsided.

In an unpublished memoir he completed shortly before his death, he recalled his
arrest in December 2011 during the Occupy Wall Street protest: ''I found myself
climbing a 15-foot linked iron fence to cast my lot with this visionary youth
movement that was sweeping the planet.''



                              
 Life on $7.25 an Hour

 

On a recent Friday evening, Eduardo Shoy left work at 6 p.m. Mr. Shoy, a
deliveryman for KFC and Pizza Hut, was coming off an eight-hour shift of driving
three-cheese pies and crispy chicken fingers, in an automotive blur, to private
homes and businesses in central Queens.

Now it was the weekend and he was headed home. He parked his car in the little
alley lot behind his house and, passing through the door, he kicked his shoes
off, donned a pair of slippers and prepared a mug of tea. He sat down with his
television set and ate the box of chicken he had brought back from the
restaurant. Within an hour, remote control beside him, still dressed in his
uniform, he had drifted off to sleep.

If Mr. Shoy were differently employed, he might have remained that way till
morning. But as a fast-food worker paid the minimum wage -- $7.25 an hour in New
York -- he didn't have the luxury. At 10 p.m., he was up again and back in his
car, this time driving to his second job, as a forklift operator at Kennedy
International Airport, where he makes $13 an hour. Having worked all day, he was
about to work all night: from 11 p.m. until 7:30 a.m. At 3 that afternoon, he
would return to his deliveries at the restaurant. Then, at 11, he would once
again drive to the airport.

Altogether, on the weekend before Thanksgiving, Mr. Shoy would sleep for 13
hours and work for 44. ''Tired?'' he asked, sounding puzzled by the question.
''I'm too busy to be tired.''â--

THERE ARE 55,000 fast-food workers in New York -- more than the entire
population of Harrisburg, Pa. -- and most, like Mr. Shoy, are struggling to
stitch together a living in an industry where the median wage is $8.90 an hour.
Last year, fast-food workers in Manhattan earned average pay of $19,000 -- or
about the cost of Mr. Shoy's Honda. In Brooklyn, it was $15,500; on Staten
Island, less.

Since 2000, the number of fast-food jobs in New York City has increased by more
than 50 percent -- 10 times as fast as in any other type of private job. But the
conspicuous increase has not received the attention given, say, to the city's
high-tech industry, nor has it lessened the financial insecurities of this
growing work force.

According to a study released in October, only 13 percent of fast-food workers
get health-insurance benefits at work. In New York State, three in five have
received some form of government assistance in the last five years. Meanwhile,
executive pay and profits in the industry are on the rise. Last winter,
Bloomberg News determined that it would take a Chicago McDonald's worker who
earns $8.25 an hour more than a century on the clock to match the $8.75 million
that the company's chief executive made in 2011.

The classic image of the high-school student flipping Big Macs after class is
sorely out of date. Because of lingering unemployment and a relative abundance
of fast-food jobs, older workers are increasingly entering the industry. These
days, according to the National Employment Law Project, the average age of
fast-food workers is 29. Forty percent are 25 or older; 31 percent have at least
attempted college; more than 26 percent are parents raising children. Union
organizers say that one-third to one-half of them have more than one job -- like
Mr. Shoy, who is 58 and supports a wife and children.

The fast-food industry says that what is going on here is a structural anomaly:
that its wages were not intended to sustain a permanent work force -- especially
adults supporting families -- and that it is happening because of larger
economic forces. ''The minimum wage was never meant to be a living wage,'' said
Steve Caldeira, the president of the International Franchise Association, a
trade group for restaurants and other franchised firms. ''It was meant, from the
start, for entry-level workers and for those with lower skills.''

Traditionally, the fast-food industry has proved resistant to unionization.
There is no one central employer against whom to strike, because most of the
restaurants are franchised. McDonald's and Burger King alone have tens of
thousands of locations across the country. And until very recently, the
demographic nature of the workers themselves was also a problem: many, as the
industry said, were youthful transients and proved difficult to organize at job
sites they were likely to leave.

But a year ago last week, the largest series of strikes against the fast-food
industry in American history began in New York City. The protests started at a
McDonald's at Madison Avenue and 40th Street, where scores of angry workers
stood in front of the familiar golden arches, waving signs and chanting rhyming
slogans. By the end of the day, workers at dozens of franchised restaurants --
Burger Kings, Taco Bells, Wendy's and the like -- had walked off the job, in an
action that concluded with a rally outside a McDonald's in Times Square.

Working under the name Fast Food Forward and funded by a giant labor group, the
Service Employees International Union, the organizers set a pair of goals -- to
unionize the industry and to make demands for a $15 minimum wage -- and began an
unusual campaign of one-day flash strikes. The strategy caught on. Last April,
five months after the first strike in New York, the fast-food actions -- now
with the umbrella name Fight for 15 (for the $15 wage demand) -- spread to
cities such as Detroit, Chicago, St. Louis, Seattle and Kansas City. Over the
summer, thousands more fast-food workers took to the streets in nearly 50
municipalities, including Memphis and Raleigh, N.C., in the traditionally
union-resistant South.

In New York, the recent elections resulted in the city's three top positions --
mayor, public advocate and comptroller -- all being filled by supporters of the
campaign, while the incoming City Council could be among the most union-friendly
in decades, said Jonathan Westin, an organizer of the movement here. Mr. Westin
also said support for a higher minimum wage was slowly growing among state
lawmakers in Albany.

There was another sign of the movement's growth -- small, but not insignificant
-- that went unnoticed in the noisy play of politics.

Eduardo Shoy, a man too busy to sleep for more than four hours a night, made
time this summer to attend his first strike.â--

MR. SHOY IS NOT what one would call a radical man. Quiet, industrious and
unyieldingly easygoing, he joined the fast-food movement only after watching
himself and his family descend from what seemed like a once-secure position in
the middle class.

In 2008, when he was 53, Mr. Shoy lost his job driving forklifts at a warehouse
on Long Island owned by the Waldbaum's grocery-store chain. His salary at the
job, which he had had for more than 20 years, was $22 an hour, and came with
overtime and benefits, he said. His wife, Elana, worked as a waitress until
three years ago, when she tore a ligament in her knee and had to quit. In 2003,
before any of that had happened, the couple bought a house for more than
$500,000 -- a comfortable three-bedroom on a quiet street in Middle Village,
Queens.

Now the house is almost empty, devoid of furniture except for a couch, a table
and the bed wedged between them in the basement, where Mr. Shoy sleeps these
days, alone. Two months ago, his wife and children -- Eduardo Jr., 22, and
Leslie, 19 -- moved to Pennsylvania, where Leslie plans to enter college next
year (with the help of financial aid) and where Eduardo Jr. works in a warehouse
for Amazon.com. Mr. Shoy has remained behind, doing what he calls ''the bachelor
thing -- working,'' until he manages to sell the house that he can no longer
afford.

''I thought I'd spend my life here,'' he said the other day, standing in the
vacancy that used to be his living room. ''The way I had it planned, I'd be
retired by now: full pension, Social Security. But things turned out a little
different in the end. You do the best you can.''

Working more than 70 hours a week between his two jobs, Mr. Shoy makes a
quasi-livable income: about $43,000 a year. But out of that, he has to pay his
mortgage, his utilities, his car lease, his car insurance premiums and his
children's car insurance premiums, and then write a check each month to help
them with their rent.

''Whatever comes first, I pay first,'' he said.

Just two weeks ago, in an effort to accentuate the challenges of fast-food jobs,
labor-union organizers published several screen grabs taken off a McDonald's
corporate website, McResourceline.com. The site, which is now unavailable, was
designed to offer financial tips to a cash-poor work force. Despite its good
intentions, it read like a Dickensian satire, counseling employees to break
their meals into pieces (which ''results in eating less and still feeling
full''); to take two vacations a year (''can cut heart attack risk by 50%'');
and to sell ''unwanted possessions on eBay or Craigslist'' for extra income.

In a statement, McDonald's said, ''This is an attempt by an outside organization
to undermine a well-intended employee-assistance website by taking isolated
portions out of context.''

The union organizers' publishing of the website details came only four months
after a sample McBudget that McDonald's had prepared for its employees went
viral on the Internet. The budget, which the company eventually amended, at
first failed to include basic staples, like food and clothing, and earmarked
only $20 a month for health-insurance payments.

Tellingly, there were two separate entries in the column labeled ''Monthly Net
Income'': one was for a first job (presumably at McDonald's); the other was for
an evidently necessary second.

Mr. Shoy found his fast-food job five years ago when someone mentioned having
seen a help-wanted sign in the window of a KFC/Pizza Hut on Fresh Pond Road. Two
years later, after his wife had to leave her own job and the couple realized
that they could not survive on the minimum wage, and the occasional tip, Mr.
Shoy started moonlighting at the airport.

''People ask me how I do it,'' he said one morning, leaving Kennedy with a few
hours to spare before he had to report to his delivery job. ''But you do what
you have to do. Otherwise I'd be living under the Williamsburg Bridge.''

It was troubles like these that he discussed with the organizer who initially
persuaded him to join the union movement, Gregory Reynoso, a former worker at a
Domino's Pizza in Brooklyn who joined Fast Food Forward last spring. The
movement itself started in late 2011, when activists from a group called New
York Communities for Change -- a spinoff of the defunct Acorn organization,
started to receive complaints about the fast-food business from residents of
Flatbush, Brownsville and Crown Heights, Brooklyn, while working there to stop a
series of highly contentious public school closings.

The group, which had already organized workers at carwashes and supermarkets,
repeatedly heard that the fast-food industry was a larger problem than either of
those, said Mr. Westin, the executive director. Fast food not only employed more
people in the neighborhoods, the residents said, but its pay and workplace
conditions were arguably worse.

According to Mr. Westin, it was no accident that the effort started in New York.

''I think New York got the worst of the recession,'' he said. ''Folks here not
only lost their jobs, and not only were the jobs created in their place low-wage
jobs. In the city, rent and real estate prices -- unlike in other places -- kept
going up.

''People were unhappy, they were struggling,'' Mr. Westin went on. ''Some
weren't eating multiple meals a day; others were sleeping in their cars. We
understood that if we wanted to create real change, we had to look at the bigger
picture -- and the bigger picture was fast food.''

Within a matter of months, New York Communities for Change had assembled several
partners for its organizing effort: UnitedNY.org, the Black Institute and,
perhaps most important, the S.E.I.U.

Conscious of its predecessors' failures, the coalition rejected the typical
approach of filing federal grievances, calling news conferences and gathering on
the steps of City Hall, and instead chose a more aggressive tactic: the roaming
one-day strike. The strategy was influenced by Occupy Wall Street's success in
inserting the trope of the 1 percent into the national conversation, said Mr.
Westin, a former Occupier himself. ''Confronting power more openly and publicly
and directly,'' he added, ''that came straight from Occupy.''

Melissa Autilio Fleischut, the chief executive of the New York State Restaurant
Association, which supports the industry, including fast-food establishments,
said that fast food was ''an opportunity industry'' where young workers could
learn skills and advance. If the minimum wage were indeed raised to $15, Ms.
Fleischut, said the result would be more automation, fewer workers hired and
increased costs at the counter. ''McDonald's dollar meal would be $1.25,'' she
said.

At the end of August, the movement scored a success when Thomas Perez, the
United States secretary of labor, mentioned the strikes in an interview with The
Associated Press, calling them a reason to raise the minimum wage. That wasn't
long after Mr. Reynoso persuaded Mr. Shoy to go to Union Square, in Manhattan,
for one of the campaign's public protests. Mr. Shoy returned to his day job
energized by the event. ''We let them know how we were feeling,'' he said. ''The
restaurants are making all the money. The worker isn't getting no money at
all.''

Though he didn't make it to the other protests over the summer, he is planning
to attend Fast Food Forward's next action.

''We'll see,'' Mr. Reynoso said. ''He's busy.''â--

IN THE LAST TWO years, Mr. Shoy has put 30,000 miles on his Civic -- most of
them in repetitious five-to-10-mile spurts. His delivery job takes him on an
endless circuit of strip clubs, auto-body shops and brick-faced apartment
buildings in Ridgewood, Maspeth and Middle Village. He is paid $1.20 for each
delivery to help defray his fuel costs. Despite the pine-tree air freshener
dangling from its door, his car is stained with an abiding stench of grease.

A couple of weeks ago, during the lunch rush, Mr. Shoy hurried from the Petro
Gas Company on 58th Street to the loading bays of a Western Beef grocery store
in a clankingly surreal industrial park near the Kosciuszko Bridge. Then it was
on to a series of row homes and apartments. On a good day, Mr. Shoy can make up
to $75 in tips. Friday was not a good day.

Thursday is the one day he has off, and so, on Thanksgiving, Mr. Shoy was
planning to get into his car again and drive the two hours to Pennsylvania to
see his family. There would be hugs and conversation; his usual favorite dinner
-- baked chicken -- would be replaced by turkey. Normally, in between the
business of reunion on these trips, he manages to sneak away for an hour or so
to nap.

He needs it. Work comes early -- and, of course, stays late -- Friday morning.



                              
 Paul Mayer, Former Priest and Antiwar Activist, Dies at 82

 

Paul Mayer, a Jewish-born former Roman Catholic priest who was at the forefront
of peace and social justice campaigns for five decades, for a time working
closely with the radical pacifist priests Philip and Daniel Berrigan, died on
Nov. 22 at his home in East Orange, N.J. He was 82.

His son, Peter, said the cause was brain cancer.

Mr. Mayer converted to Catholicism as a teenager and gave up the priesthood in
1968 to marry a former nun. But he said he still considered himself a priest --
just as he still considered himself a Jew.

''Jesus never stopped being a Jew, and frankly I don't think I could stop being
a Jew even if I wanted to,'' he told the psychotherapist Alan Levin in an
interview for a forthcoming book, ''Crossing the Boundary.''

He wore the priest's collar for the rest of his life. He also became a devotee
of Navajo religious tradition and the philosophy and practice of yoga.

In the 1960s and '70s, Mr. Mayer helped the Berrigan brothers plan some of their
highly publicized antiwar sorties, including the 1968 raid on a draft board
office in Catonsville, Md., to remove and burn draft files in the parking lot
outside. He also coordinated underground support for the Berrigans when they
went into hiding, hunted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation as among its 10
most wanted fugitives.

In 1971, Mr. Mayer was named an unindicted co-conspirator in an alleged plot to
kidnap Henry A. Kissinger, the national security adviser to President Richard M.
Nixon, supposedly to ransom him in exchange for an end to the war in Vietnam.
The defendants contended that the F.B.I. had fabricated the plot with the help
of a paid informer. Mr. Mayer headed the defense committee for those charged in
the case, known as the Harrisburg Seven. While awaiting trial, Mr. Mayer
officiated at the wedding of two of the defendants, the Rev. Philip Berrigan and
an activist nun, Elizabeth McAlister, at the federal detention center in
Danbury, Conn.

The trial, in 1972, ended in a hung jury, after which the government dropped all
but minor charges against Father Berrigan and Sister Elizabeth.

Mr. Mayer was a Benedictine monk for 18 years at St. Paul's Abbey in Newton,
N.J., before being ordained a Catholic priest in the mid-1960s. In 1966 he met
Naomi Lambert, a nun at the time with the order of Medical Mission Sisters,
while traveling in Mexico. They married two years later. By the time the Vatican
relieved him of his priestly duties in 1971, they had had the first of their two
children.

The couple established a commune of sorts, called Project Share, in East Orange,
where they and a group of families lived together and supported one another in
two adjacent six-unit apartment buildings.

His marriage ended in divorce in the 1970s. Besides his son, he is survived by a
daughter, Maria.

Mr. Mayer continued a life of extravagant disregard for conventions. In 1972 he
toured villages in North Vietnam that the Communist authorities said had been
carpet-bombed by American planes. He visited Cuba many times to deliver medical
supplies, in defiance of the United States trade embargo.

In 1973, while heading an American delegation to the World Peace Congress in
Moscow, he caused a stir by criticizing the meeting's sponsor, the Soviet Union,
saying it was waging ''a campaign to silence'' any of its citizens ''who seek to
express their rights.'' In response, his own delegation of activists stripped
him of his leadership role.

Paul Michael Mayer was born in Frankfurt on Feb. 24, 1931, to Ernst and Berthel
Mayer. After Paul and a younger brother, Franz, were expelled from school as
Jews under Nazi decrees, their father, a concert pianist who worked as a
salesman, and their mother, a nurse, immigrated to the United States with their
children in 1938.

Mr. Mayer lived in an orphanage while his parents and younger brother stayed
with relatives for about a year, until they could afford to rent an apartment in
the Washington Heights section of Manhattan.

His decision to convert to Catholicism at 16, he said, reflected a ''driving
adolescent drive to belong.'' The writings of Thomas Merton, a Trappist monk and
Christian mystic, cemented his commitment, he said. After being ordained, he was
a parish priest in Panama.

He took up the cause of social justice when he joined the civil rights march
from Selma to Montgomery, Ala., in 1965. Almost 50 years later the passion had
not subsided.

In an unpublished memoir he completed shortly before his death, he recalled his
arrest in December 2011 during the Occupy Wall Street protest: ''I found myself
climbing a 15-foot linked iron fence to cast my lot with this visionary youth
movement that was sweeping the planet.''



                              
 Dear President of China

 

MEMO to: China's President Xi Jinping.

From: A Friend of Your Country.

Dear President Xi, in recent years there's been a tug of war inside the global
investment community between those who think China is a bubble about to burst
and therefore a ''screaming short'' and those who believe that China has big
problems -- but also big tools and smart leaders -- and will find a way forward,
even if at a more normal growth rate. I lean toward the second camp, but looking
at some of China's recent behavior I'm beginning to wonder: Maybe your system is
more frail than I thought?

I say that as someone who wants to see China succeed in empowering its people to
realize their full potential so they can better participate in shaping China's
future and integrate with the world. Anyone who is telling you that American
policy makers want to see China fail doesn't know what they're talking about.
Our two economies and fates are totally intertwined today.

So, I wish China's people well. Many Americans do. That is why I am writing you
today. I believe you're about to make a terrible, terrible mistake.

The Chinese-language websites of The Wall Street Journal and Reuters were
recently blocked, and those of Bloomberg News and The New York Times have both
been blocked for months. More important, The Times and Bloomberg together have
more than 20 journalists in China whose visas are up for renewal by the end of
December and, so far, your government is refusing to act on them -- in apparent
retaliation for both organizations exposing the enormous wealth amassed by
relatives of senior Chinese leaders, including yours. The rumor is that you
intend to deny both organizations the right to report from China.

China experts tell me that this unprecedented crackdown is prompted by your
feeling that we've crossed a red line. You apparently thought the rules of the
game were that the foreign press, local media and social media could write
anything they wanted about corruption and social protests at the local and
provincial level -- indeed, it was a way for the central government to track and
curb corruption -- but that such focus should never be brought to the financial
dealings of the top leaders of the Communist Party.

Sir, if a red line has been crossed, it has been by your officials and by
technology. How so? There have been enough small stories in your own media --
tips of icebergs -- that suggest a widespread amassing of assets by family
members of the most senior Communist Party officials. This kind of asset grab
may not be illegal in all cases, but it surely could not happen at this scale
without people taking advantage of their positions and the lack of transparency
at the top.

In March 2012, Chinese authorities quickly deleted from the blogosphere photos
of a fatal Beijing car crash, believed to involve the son of a close ally of
then-President Hu Jintao. The car was a Ferrari. The driver was killed and two
young women with him badly injured. How could such a young man afford a Ferrari?

There was no way the foreign press was going to permanently ignore such stories
that so many Chinese were talking about online. And that became even more true
with the financialization of your economy and the emergence of a shareholding
culture that required your companies and markets to comply with international
norms for public filings of corporate structures and shareholders.

It was inevitable that once those filings were in place reporters in China
would, as we did, hire accountants and lawyers to scrutinize these public
records and discover things -- like the fact that former Prime Minister Wen
Jiabao's 90-year-old mother, a retired schoolteacher, had in her name an
investment in a large Chinese financial services company valued around $100
million and Wen's son, daughter, younger brother and brother-in-law had all also
become extraordinarily wealthy.

Who crossed the red line here? We'd argue that it was some of your colleagues
and their kids in opting for industrial-scale greed -- combined with the new
technology to expose it. That technology is not going away, so the excesses and
corruption better. The Times and Bloomberg did your leadership a huge service in
exposing this. It was a warning heart attack. The No. 1 cause of death of
Chinese regimes in history is greed and corruption.

If you throw all our correspondents out of China, I can tell you exactly what
will happen: They will set up offices in Hong Kong, Taiwan and South Korea and
do nothing other than comb through financial records from afar, without the
balancing alternative to travel in China, meet and hear from Chinese people face
to face, and write with nuance about other issues. Also, it will force us to
evict your journalists. We will not let you enjoy our openness while you blind
us.

President Xi, you are right that exposure of huge, high-level asset grabs poses
an existential threat to your party's rule. But you're wrong if you blame those
exposing these excesses rather than those perpetrating them.

When China was taking off in the 1980s and 1990s, it could get away with
maintaining open markets with a closed political system. I don't believe that
will be possible in this century, certainly not to the degree of the past. Over
the last 10 years, the world has gone from connected to hyper-connected. The net
effect is that in more and more countries -- including China -- wealth is
getting concentrated at the top, but, at the same time, more power to speak and
organize is being distributed at the bottom and more power to see --
transparency -- is being injected everywhere.

CHINA has more than 300 million micro-bloggers on your Twitter equivalent,
Weibo, half of China is now on the Internet and China has 1 billion cellphones
in use, many with cameras. There is no way in such a world that the focus on
corruption and financial excesses can just stay localized. See dictionary for:
Occupy Wall Street, Tahrir Square and Edward Snowden. They are all stories of
what happens when wealth gets concentrated at the top, power gets distributed at
the bottom and transparency gets injected everywhere.

Beijing ought to be concerned about what the general public will do if the
secretive, back-room dealing that has enriched some elites -- which every day
more Chinese can see and discuss among themselves -- remains a forbidden topic
for public discussion and reform, and therefore mass protest becomes the only
option to address it.

President Xi, for your sake and the sake of stability in China, please don't
make the mistake of blaming the messengers. The Great Chinese Firewall you need
to construct can't be against the truth. It has to be against corruption.

Sincerely yours,

A Friend of China.



                              
 From 'Wolf' to Sheepish Clothing

 

In Martin Scorsese's new film, ''The Wolf of Wall Street,'' it is not hard to
tell when Jordan Belfort, the high-finance hustler of the 1990s, played by
Leonardo DiCaprio, has officially made it on Wall Street: His suits go from
billowy, double-breasted, off-the-rack numbers to lordly pinstripes, complete
with a chunky gold Rolex watch, Gucci loafers and a giant red silk tie.

Ah, for the days when greed was good.

Throughout the go-go ''Wolf'' years on Wall Street, the Gordon Gekko definition
of a power suit -- think blue pinstripes, shoulder pads, wide lapels and a red
or yellow power tie -- held a particular grip on the psyche of young men like
Mr. Belfort (those who shared his ambition, anyway, if not his contempt for the
law).

Caught up in the testosterone-soaked frenzy of a bull market, would-be masters
of the universe found that the power suit not only provided the psychological
armor it took to survive the trading trenches, but signaled, through its sheer
gangster-ish cockiness, one's intention to scrape his way to the top by any
means necessary. (Yes, this was a boys' club.)

Today, the Dow is once again soaring. But on a more sober, post-financial-crisis
Wall Street, bankers and clothiers said, the dress code for men has steered away
from Gekko-style displays of conspicuous sartorial consumption.

Sure, among bonus babies, there is always room in the closet for a $6,000
bespoke suit, or 10 of them. But anyone showing up on the trading floor in
suspenders and a contrast-collar shirt better be old enough to remember Drexel,
or off to a 1980s theme party after trading closes.

''The power suit is over,'' said Euan Rellie, a New York investment banker with
deep ties to the style crowd (he is married to the fashion editor Lucy Sykes,
the twin sister of Vogue's Plum Sykes). ''Less is more today. Finance is less
brash, and so are its clothes.''

We are a long way from Mr. Belfort's day, when the broad-shouldered power suit,
along with the Lamborghini and the Charles Gwathmey-inspired beach house,
advertised extreme wealth.

''When you have someone who is incredibly successful and has no time to devote
to polishing his style, you end up with the 1980s,'' said Sebastian
Tatano-Ramirez, creative director at Alexander Nash, a maker of bespoke suits
with a large Wall Street clientele. ''Nowadays, it seems that successful men
have finally understood what 'stylish' actually means.''

The contemporary equivalent of the power suit, for those who still wear suits on
the Street, tends to be sleeker and more subdued, Mr. Tatano-Ramirez said. In
place of pinstripes is often a trimmer-fitting ensemble in solid blue or gray,
or perhaps glen plaid, with narrower lapels and softer shoulders. It may be
offset by a narrower tie of a more subdued color, perhaps even (gasp) wool
instead of silk.

While such a latter-day power suit can still command power prices (a
top-of-the-line bespoke suit from Alexander Nash costs $8,000), the status cues
are subtle, Mr. Tatano-Ramirez said, invisible except to those who are versed in
the codes: super 120 wool, if not super 150; working buttonholes on the sleeves,
perhaps with the final one stitched, rakishly, in a different color; side tabs
instead of belt loops (a suit that truly fits requires no $300 belt to hold up
the trousers); a playful lining in, say, electric-blue paisley.

''Any external sign of wealth in how Wall Street dresses has been replaced with
a desire to look average or normal,'' said Gregory Lellouche, a former senior
investment banker at UBS who now runs a men's clothing and accessories website,
No Man Walks Alone. ''You see very few 'banker stripe' suits on Wall Street
these days, except on the oldest gents. No Prince of Wales or windowpane suits,
no Gordon Gekko contrasting-collar shirts.''

If today's power suit makes a quieter statement, it is because its role has
evolved considerably since the '80s.

For a glimpse of how it once was, consider the early scenes of ''Wolf,'' which
are set in the days before the 1987 crash and were exhaustively researched for
period accuracy, said Sandy Powell, the film's costume designer. The young Mr.
Belfort, a working-class wannabe from Queens, shows up as a junior equity
salesman at an august Wall Street bank and finds more pinstripes and navy blue
than the New York Yankees clubhouse. At the height of the '80s boom (and, to a
large extent, the '90s boom that followed), bankers and traders morphed into
cultural icons, so they adopted a showy gentleman-fop style that befitted their
new status: French cuffs with shimmering cuff links; suspenders in bold
statement patterns, like a skull-and-crossbones motif. ''It wasn't about
fashion,'' Ms. Powell said. ''It was about showing your money on your back.''

The dot-com era of the '90s swept all that away. In an effort to meet the
khaki-clad Internet zillionaires on neutral sartorial ground, even institutions
like J. P. Morgan and Morgan Stanley did away with the suit and adopted
business-casual dress codes, a shift that was well documented by the fashion and
business media. Cut loose of their stylistic moorings, bankers often defaulted
to khakis and blue polo shirts, a look that was quickly derided as the
''Blockbuster uniform.''

Like Pets.com, Wall Street casual got a lot of ink but had no prayer of
surviving the bursting bubble of 2000. With the easy money gone, many bankers
reverted to formal attire -- at least, many bankers in so-called client-facing
roles, like investment banking and mergers and acquisitions. (Men in sales and
trading can often wear the casual slacks and button-down look that took hold in
hedge-fund culture.)

The Gekko look took another body blow during the financial crisis of 2008 and,
several years later, from Occupy Wall Street, several bankers said. Suddenly, it
seemed either tasteless or personally hazardous to walk around in an outfit that
shouted ''1 percent.'' It is no wonder that Wall Street peacocks have learned to
dial back on anything that smacks of capitalist dandyism.

''I haven't worn a pocket square in years,'' said one investment banker, 40, who
spoke anonymously because of his employer's policies against workers' speaking
with the news media. ''After the financial crisis, the people who are really
stylish want to tone it down. Even if they're wearing the same suits, they wear
simpler shirts, simpler ties. People are making adjustments. I'm not wearing a
pocket square, another guy is not wearing French cuffs.''

This is not to say that style is dead on Wall Street. Quite the contrary: The
shift has allowed a new generation of Wall Street men to explore new frontiers
of patterns and cuts.

''When people are going into meetings, there's a flexibility to dress more like
you're seeing in the rest of the world,'' said Paul Trible, chief executive and
designer at Ledbury, an online clothier in Richmond, Va., whose
downtown-inflected shirts and ties are trendy among young men on Wall Street.
''The casual aspect you see in industries like media and advertising is starting
to seep into finance.''

That means slimmer, more form-flattering suits, like the J. Crew Ludlow suit. It
also means thinner ties; socks with more color or personality; and, particularly
for those who do not have to wear ties, shirts with spread collars in fabrics
borrowed from the ''heritage hip'' look, including, Mr. Trible said, gingham,
Tattersall check and chambray.

''At the junior ranks, you see J. Crew and Theory,'' said an investment banker
in his 30s, who also spoke anonymously because of his employer's policies
against talking to the media. ''In the last 18 months, I've seen first-year
analysts showing up in wool ties and making it work.''

In the end, the goal is a look that does not scream ''banker,'' but whispers it.
''The proper tone today is an elegance that doesn't try too hard,'' Mr. Rellie
said. ''Wall Street doesn't want to show off anymore, because no one is
listening.''



                              
 Newly Released Books

 

This month, a novel that conjures an imaginary city, an elegant book of poems
complemented by haunting paintings, two dark collections of short stories where
nothing is as it seems, and two rugged graphic novels with enjoyably ragged
edges.

COMMUNION TOWN

A City in Ten Chapters

By Sam Thompson

279 pages. Bloomsbury USA. $25.

The nameless city in Sam Thompson's fine first novel, ''Communion Town,'' is ''a
world of gray dawn twilight and blackened stone above, rainwater dripping from
the girders.'' Monsters skulk amid the rubblescapes, dread is the flavor of the
day. Each chapter in the novel, longlisted for the 2012 Man Booker Prize, is
told by a different character, in a different genre. And each unspools like a
pitch-perfect improvisation: on Kafka, gothic horror, the serial-killer tale. In
episodes that have the depth and texture of novels, Mr. Thompson builds his
cryptic city of abridged lives -- but time is his truest protagonist. Ordinary
time doesn't pass; it accumulates like soot and rust. As one character says in
''Gallathea,'' a Möbius strip of a noir: ''Time is strange. In certain rooms,
you have to be careful how you leave, or you might meet yourself coming back.''

CORRESPONDENCES

A Poem and Portraits

By Anne Michaels

and Bernice Eisenstein

128 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $35.

To enter the beguilingly allusive and elusive ''Correspondences'' is to again be
a child holed up under the kitchen table, straining to hear the grown-ups
murmur. The poet Anne Michaels's seductive and ethereal voice summons the
spirits of writers who weathered -- or didn't -- the ravages of the 20th
century, like Paul Celan, Fernando Pessoa, Anna Akhmatova, Primo Levi and more.
Bernice Eisenstein's haunted paintings of the writers are paired with brief
quotations from them and others. (Bruno Schulz: ''Could it be that time is too
narrow for all events?'') This stunning book, with its accordion design, can be
read forward or backward, making it feel like a new book each time it's opened.
''Correspondences'' is a conversation between Ms. Eisenstein and Ms. Michaels,
between them and the writers conjured, among the dead themselves -- and with the
reader.

RICHARD STARK'S PARKER

Slayground

Adapted and illustrated by Darwyn Cooke

96 pages. IDW Publishing. $17.99.

This Tilt-a-Whirl of a graphic novel is a perfect example of the Elmore Leonard
writing rule, ''Try to leave out the part that readers tend to skip'' -- and
that's to the credit of both Darwyn Cooke and Richard Stark (a pseudonym for the
crime writer Donald Westlake). ''Slayground'' is Mr. Cooke's fourth adaptation
of a Parker novel, and it meets his previous high standards. The setup is simple
but elegant, the execution excellent: An armored-car heist goes wrong, and the
book's antihero, Parker, is forced to hole up in a closed amusement park
(midwinter, Buffalo, 1969) as he tries to duck a rabid pack of gunsels, kingpins
and crooked cops. The story and talk are crisp, and the graphics sure. Mr. Cooke
always lets action speak louder than words. And there's a delightful highlight
in this well-designed book: a foldout map of Fun Island, ''the Happiest Place in
the World'' -- though Parker might disagree.

THE APE'S WIFE

AND OTHER STORIES

By Caitlin R. Kiernan

279 pages. Subterranean Press. $40.

The short story is Caitlin R. Kiernan's laboratory, a sanctum where she can rain
arcane powders on an idea, crank up the literary Bunsen burner and see what
happens. In ''The Ape's Wife,'' what happens is often wonderful. There are a few
experiments that fail, but well over half of the stories are first rate, as Ms.
Kiernan roves from Lovecraftian awe to straight-up science fiction. The best
include: ''The Steam Dancer (1896),'' a confluence of steampunk, striptease and
Pygmalion -- ''She is muscle and skin, steel and artifice''; the title story, an
alternate vision of King Kong and his beloved; and ''The Sea Troll's Daughter,''
a recasting of Beowulf in which the hero is a woman and the saved are ingrates.
As you read, you may feel like one of the narrators here, who says, ''I did
start out believing the truths of the universe were knowable.'' But that was
before you entered Ms. Kiernan's crepuscular lab.

SNAPSHOT

By Andy Diggle and Jock

104 pages. Image Comics. $12.99.

''Snapshot,'' a smart, well-drawn take on the conspiracy thriller, is a
Tarantino-tinted B-movie disguised as a graphic novel. The writer Andy Diggle
and the artist Jock, who created the comic book that inspired the 2010 action
movie ''The Losers,'' tell the story of Jake Dobson, a clerk at a comics shop,
who finds a cellphone that harbors grisly photos of an apparent murder. Then
things really get weird. Dobson becomes enmeshed in a plot in which a hit man is
on his trail, the dead won't stay dead, and secrets are common currency. Heady
stuff for Dobson, who explains: ''I sell comic books and action figures. I play
video games. I don't kill people.'' ''Snapshot'' manages to satirize both
high-frequency stock trading and Occupy Wall Street, as Mr. Diggle keeps the
story hurtling ahead -- though the dialogue could've been even more spare -- and
Jock's stark black-and-white drawings provide expressionistic pleasure on each
page.

THINGS WITHERED

By Susie Moloney

261 pages. ChiZine Publications. $16.95.

Short-story collections are often like crushes. They bellow to life like a
blowtorch at the start with their best stories, but soon fizzle. And that's the
case with Susie Moloney's ''Things Withered,'' 13 tales (mostly) from the dark
heart of suburbia. The best of these stories are a likable mash-up of
''Desperate Housewives'' and ''The Twilight Zone,'' featuring refreshingly
strong and rounded female characters. There are compelling tales of office
politics and witchcraft (''The Windemere'') and shockingly fatal paper cuts
(''The Audit''), but the middle of the book sometimes lapses into a kind of
bland Horror and Garden TV. After those becalmed waters, the final story is its
best. ''The Neighbourhood, or, to the Devil With You'' churns with murderous
suburban grudges and jealousy. It opens, ''I don't remember when it was I
started hating Hazel Kummel, but I do remember the moment I realized that I
did.'' That could be the coda for the whole collection.



                              
 Mayor and Commissioner Share Moment With Police

 

For Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly, it has
become something of an annual tradition: proclaiming yet another year of reduced
crime and fewer murders.

And on Friday, standing before nearly 1,200 new police officers at their
graduation ceremony, the two men spoke again -- for perhaps the last time
together in office -- about the declines they have overseen.

''The crime reductions the N.Y.P.D. has driven over the past 12 years have
defied the odds and far outpaced the rest of the nation,'' Mr. Bloomberg, who
leaves office next week, said, speaking at Madison Square Garden. ''Twelve years
ago, no one thought New York City's crime rate could go any lower, but then it
did. And since 2001, crime has gone down by 32 percent.''

As of Dec. 26, the police recorded 332 murders this year, a sharp drop from the
419 murders in 2012, which was the lowest year on record in half a century, when
the department began keeping reliable homicide statistics.

It was a valedictory moment not just for the 1,171 graduating cadets, but also
for Mr. Kelly, who recalled the satisfaction and excitement he felt 47 years ago
when he became a young police officer.

''I will always be grateful to the mayor for giving me the opportunity to serve
again as police commissioner,'' said Mr. Kelly, who will be replaced by William
J. Bratton, a former police commissioner. ''I am immensely grateful to the men
and women of the department who protect this city.''

Addressing the new officers, Mr. Kelly recounted with pride a number of the
events that the police responded to during his tenure under Mr. Bloomberg, like
presidential and papal visits and ''an earthquake, two hurricanes, and Occupy
Wall Street.''

''They handled everything that came their way with unmatched courage and
skill,'' he said.



                              
 New York Today: Not on My Home Ice

 

 Good morning to you on this dreary Wednesday.

Teresa Genaro attended her first Rangers game at age 4 at Madison Square Garden.

She's held season tickets since 2002.

So where will she be tonight, as the Rangers fight at the Garden to prolong the
Stanley Cup finals against the Los Angeles Kings?

On her couch in Brooklyn Heights. Alone.

"I'm not going," she said. "I can't bear to see a cup given out on my ice."

After a remarkable postseason run where they seemed to win by sheer force of
spirit, the Rangers have lost the first three games, two of them in overtime.

"The Rangers' hearts have maybe been kicked out of them a little bit," said Ms.
Genaro, a high school English teacher.

She'll have the TV on, but if the Kings take the lead, she may change channels.

Ms. Genaro's friend and commiserator John Hennegan will attend the game in her
place.

Mr. Hennegan, who makes sports documentaries, understands that only the dismal
situation is allowing him to go see his beloved Rangers play. He is O.K. with
that.

"I just take it as it comes," he said.

"I can see the Kings hoisting a Stanley Cup. Or I can see the beginning of some
drama, and that's really what sports are."

The game starts at 8 o'clock and will be on NBCSN.

Here's what else you need to know.

WEATHER

The cloudathon continues, cooler today with patchy fog, a localized morning
shower and a high of 68.

COMING UP TODAY

Representative Charles B. Rangel and Adriano Espaillat hold their first
televised primary debate, at Lehman College in the Bronx. 7 p.m. on NY1 and
NY1.com.

Mayor de Blasio meets this morning with tenants of the Boulevard Houses in East
New York, where two children were stabbed in an elevator.

It's no-kill day in city animal shelters, which are open late for adoptions.

Because there's no law against public levitation: around 300 people jump on
trampolines to try to set a world record, at Asphalt Green on East 90th Street.
6:30 to 9 a.m. ...

... And five world-class female pole-vaulters lift off in Herald Square to
promote a track meet. 12:30 p.m. [Free]

Lunchtime storytelling in Bryant Park, with writers and comedians from the "Real
Characters" crew. 12:30 p.m. [Free]

Free movie: "The Muppets Take Manhattan" at South Street Seaport. 8 p.m.

The author of "Animal Madness" speaks of compulsive parrots and psychotic
elephants at Bell House in Brooklyn. 8 p.m. [Free]

Yankees at Mariners, 10:10 p.m. (YES). Mets host Brewers, 7:10 p.m. (SNY).

For more events, see The New York Times Arts & Entertainment guide.

COMMUTE

Subways

PATH

L.I.R.R. and Metro-North

N.J. Transit

Roads: Check traffic map or radio report on the 1s or the 8s.

Alternate-side parking: in effect all month.

Air travel: La Guardia, J.F.K., Newark.

IN THE NEWS

The city will pay $600,000 to settle a suit accusing officers of falsely
arresting Occupy Wall Street protesters who were walking on a sidewalk. [New
York Times]

Shootings are up 10 percent in the city this year. [Wall Street Journal]

The mother of Cardinal John Joseph O'Connor, New York's top Catholic official
for 16 years, was born Jewish.  [New York Times]

An indoor-outdoor marijuana farm near the Barclays Center was destroyed after an
extension-cord fire drew firefighters. [DNAinfo]

An appeals court revived the city's "Taxi of Tomorrow" plan, which had been
struck down by a lower court. [New York Times]

A man was charged with killing a woman in the Bronx even though her body was
never found after she disappeared in 2012. [New York Times]

The wood frog moved one hop closer to becoming New York's state amphibian.
[Associated Press]

Scoreboard: Yankees sink Mariners, 3-2. Mets down Brewers, 6-2.

Kenneth Rosen contributed reporting.

New York Today is a weekday roundup that stays live from 6 a.m. till late
morning. You can receive it via email.

What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at
nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday.

Follow the New York Today columnists, Annie Correal and Andy Newman, on Twitter.

You can always find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.



                              
 The Listings: Art

 

Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of
recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. A searchable guide to these and many other
art shows is at nytimes.com/events.

Museums

&#x2605; American Folk Art Museum: 'Self-Taught Genius: Treasures From the
American Folk Art Museum' (through Aug. 17) This exhibition is not only an
enthralling display of about 100 works from the museum's permanent collection;
it's also an intellectually provocative effort to rethink the nature of artistic
creativity. There are paintings and drawings, quilts, ceramics, handmade books,
pieces of elaborately decorated furniture, duck decoys and weather vanes dating
from the mid-18th to the early-21st centuries, all produced by people from many
different walks of life who had no formal training in art. The inspirationally
democratic message is that potential for creative genius is wired into the
consciousness of everyone. 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue at 66th Street,
212-595-9533, folkartmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson)

&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'Ai Weiwei: According to What?' (through Aug. 10) On
the last stop of its tour, the 2012 survey of the courageous Chinese
artist-activist Ai Weiwei is much improved by the addition of two new
installation pieces, both of which prove that Mr. Ai is nothing without China
and that the ready-made that serves him best is life itself. A completely
memorable show. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, 718-638-5000,
brooklynmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith)

Brooklyn Museum: 'Chicago in L.A.: Judy Chicago's Early Work 1963-74' (through
Sept. 28) Love it or hate it, Judy Chicago's ''The Dinner Party'' remains a
great, enduringly provocative monument of feminist art. This exhibition tells
the story of Ms. Chicago's pre-''Dinner Party'' career in Los Angeles, a period
during which she evolved from an ambitious graduate student into a full-fledged
feminist visionary. There are Minimalist sculptures at the start; glossy Finish
Fetish paintings midway through; and, at the end, trippy paintings and drawings
in which flowers, butterflies and female genitalia serve as metaphors of
political and transcendental transformation. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect
Park, 718-638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Johnson)

Brooklyn Museum: 'Divine Felines: Cats of Ancient Egypt' (through December) If
your dream of heaven is eternity spent with the pets you love, this show is for
you. All of its 30 objects, sifted from the museum's renowned Egyptian
collection, are of cats, big and little, feral and tame, celestial and not.
Whether cast in bronze or carved in stone, their forms and personalities were
meant to outlast time, and so they have. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park,
718-638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter)

&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'Witness: Art and Civil Rights in the Sixties'
(through July 6) This imaginatively chosen show lays to rest the idea that
photography was the only memorable art the civil rights era produced. Most of
what's here is painting, sculpture and collage. The roster is racially and
ethnically mixed, the artists varied in degrees of familiarity. Some, like Jacob
Lawrence, Frank Stella and Norman Rockwell, are well known. Others -- like
Cleveland Bellow, LeRoy Clarke, Virginia Jaramillo and John T. Riddle Jr. -- are
rare visitors to our major museums. The show gets the balance of history right
in other ways too, by letting it be confused and confusing, a thing of loose
strands and hard questions still looking for answers. 200 Eastern Parkway, at
Prospect Park, 718-638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)

&#x2605; The Frick Collection: 'The Poetry of Parmigianino's Schiava Turca'
(through July 20) The museum's third collaboration with the Foundation for
Italian Art and Culture, this small exhibition is the first appearance of
Parmigianino's ''Schiava Turca'' in this country. It follows other loans of
Renaissance portraits of enigmatic women: Raphael's ''La Fornarina'' (from the
Galleria Nazionale d'Arte Antica in Rome) and Parmigianino's ''Antea'' (from the
Museo di Capodimonte in Naples). The painting's title, which translates as
''Turkish Slave,'' is a misnomer; scholars suggest that the subject, a woman
with twinkling hazel eyes and a mischievous half-smile, is more likely an
Italian noblewoman with some literary connections. Whoever she is, she radiates
confidence and intellectual poise. 1 East 70th Street, 212-288-0700, frick.org.
(Karen Rosenberg)

Guggenheim Museum: 'Italian Futurism, 1909-1944: Reconstructing the Universe'
(through Sept. 1) This epic, beautifully designed exhibition may be one of the
more thorough examinations of modernism's most obnoxious and conflicted art
movement that you are likely to see. Awash in the manifestoes that its members
regularly fired off, it follows Futurism through to its end with the death of
its founder, Filippo Tommaso Marinetti, in 1944. It covers the Futurist
obsessions with speed, war, machines and, finally, flight and the aerial views
it made possible. And the show highlights relatively unknown figures like the
delightful Fortunato Depero and Benedetta Cappa, Marinetti's wife. 1071 Fifth
Avenue, at 89th Street, 212-423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Smith)

Jewish Museum: 'Mel Bochner: Strong Language' (through Sept. 21) Words have been
the subjects and primary constituents of the enigmatic, acerbically provocative
paintings Mel Bochner has been producing over the past 12 years. This elegantly
produced exhibition gives them their due and traces their roots back to
text-based works Mr. Bochner created in the '60s and early '70s, when he was one
of New York's pre-eminent conceptual artists. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street,
212-423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Johnson)

&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Charles James: Beyond Fashion' (through
Aug. 10) One of the Costume Institute's most ravishing exhibitions argues for
this American fashion designer as a great modern artist -- a sculptor-architect
with a keen but discreet appreciation of women and their bodies. Aided by the
latest digital wizardry, the insuperably forward-looking garments, especially
the ball gowns, do most of the talking. Their innovations in shape, draping,
seam placement, texture and color coalesce into breathtakingly gorgeous couture
and an important show. 212-535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)

&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Flowering of Edo Period Painting:
Japanese Masterworks from the Feinberg Collection' (through Sept. 7) This
museum's Japanese galleries have been pulling crowds with a recent series of
theme-based exhibitions. It now takes on a different challenge: How to present a
cogent narrative within the parameters of a private collection. Given the
material, it would have been hard to go wrong. What a collection this is. And
what histories, new and old, it holds. Gleaming gold landscape screens, painted
fans, painted views into urban brothels: The show is a magnetic beauty.
212-535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)

&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Goya and the Altamira Family' (through
Aug. 3) In this small but intensely gratifying exhibition, the Met has reunited
Manuel Osorio Manrique de Zuñiga, the little red-suited boy in its prize Goya
portrait, with his parents and three of his six siblings. (Four of the paintings
are by Goya, and one is by his less talented Spanish collaborator Agustín Esteve
y Marqués.) It's a rare opportunity to see a single aristocratic family through
Goya's eyes, and to appreciate a pivotal moment in his career: when he was
shoring up his reputation as a pre-eminent court painter. 212-535-7710,
metmuseum.org. 212-535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)

&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Lost Kingdoms: Hindu-Buddhist Sculpture of
Early Southeast Asia, 5th to 8th Century' (through July 27) When the Met gives
its all to a show in terms of space, money and scholarship, and the art is as
rich as a massed chorale and as haunting as a single-voice chant, no institution
can produce more impressive results. Such is the case with this display of
sculpture from Cambodia, Malaysia, Myanmar and Thailand, almost all produced by
courts and city-states long since disappeared. What's known of their histories
makes for a complex tale, and this is a complex show, though if you let beauty
carry through you it is an enchanting one. 212-535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)

Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Making Pottery Art: The Robert A. Ellison Jr.
Collection of French Ceramics (ca. 1880-1910)' (through Aug. 18) Nearly all the
40 works in this show -- from a collection recently donated to the museum -- are
in a traditional form of vases, bowls and platters. They represent a marvelous
variety of styles and influences, including Art Nouveau, Arts and Crafts,
classic Chinese traditions, and European folk art. What they share is a love for
processes and materials and a candid way with the human touch. Most intriguing
of all is a curiously clunky small vase by Paul Gauguin, who might have been the
George Ohr of European ceramics if he'd stuck with it. 212-535-7710,
metmuseum.org. (Johnson)

MoMA PS1: 'Christoph Schlingensief' (through Aug. 31) This hagiographic, walk-in
scrapbook of a show surveys the wildly adventurous career of Christoph
Schlingensief (1960-2010), who was during his lifetime one of Germany's most
famous artists. A zany, charismatic provocateur who worked in film, television,
theater and opera, he ran roughshod over rules of good taste and decorum with
infectious, hilariously outrageous élan. Imagine a merger of Joseph Beuys and
Andy Kaufman. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens,
718-784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)

&#x2605; MoMA PS1: Maria Lassnig (through Sept. 7) In 1948, this Austrian artist
coined the term ''body awareness'' to describe her method of painting, which she
has pursued for more than half a century. Her self-titled show shapes this long
and remarkable career into a tightly edited survey, weighted toward recent works
that reveal Ms. Lassnig's influence on contemporary artists like Dana Schutz and
Amy Sillman. Her earlier efforts fascinate as well, linking up with an
astonishing variety of postwar art movements: Abstract Expressionism, Art
Informel and Viennese Actionism, to name a few. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th
Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, 718-784-2084, ps1.org. (Rosenberg)

Morgan Library & Museum: 'A Dialogue With Nature: Romantic Landscapes From
Britain and Germany' (through Sept. 7) With Johann Georg Wagner (1744-67),
Caspar David Friedrich and J.M.W. Turner in attendance, this beautiful show
contrasts drawings by German and British artists in a series of often stunning
alternately exacting and flamboyant works, which were drawn from the Courtauld
Gallery in London and the Morgan. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street,
212-685-0008, themorgan.org. (Smith)

&#x2605; Morgan Library & Museum: 'Miracles in Miniature: The Art of the Master
of Claude de France' (through Sept. 14) The first exhibition devoted to one of
the last great artists of Renaissance illumination -- named for his royal patron
-- encompasses exquisite books of hours no bigger than credit cards, serene
calendar vignettes set in the open air and pages on which trompe l'oeil
renderings of flowers are uncharacteristically granted center stage. 225 Madison
Avenue, at 36th Street, 212-685-0008, themorgan.org. (Smith)

El Museo del Barrio: 'Museum Starter Kit: Open With Care' (through Sept. 6) This
modest three-shows-in-one exhibition begins with a homage to Raphael Montañez
Ortiz, now 80, who founded El Museo in a public school classroom in 1969, and
continues with a selection of works by contemporary artists who, both in terms
of biography and work, are Latino in complicated ways. A third section is made
up of objects lent by East Harlem residents who were invited by the museum to
display things they treasure in their homes, including vintage political
posters, a Cotton Club cocktail shaker and a detailed handmade model of a
tropical bungalow. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem,
212-831-7272, elmuseo.org. (Cotter)

&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Alibis: Sigmar Polke 1963-2010' (through Aug. 3)
The German artist Sigmar Polke, who died in 2010, is usually mentioned in the
same breath with Anselm Kiefer and Gerhard Richter as one of the great European
male artists of the postwar years. But of the three, he is the most resistant to
branding, and the hardest to get a handle on. In terms of media, he was all over
the map: painting, drawing, photography, collage, sculpture, film, installation,
performance; he did them all. He brushed up against Abstract Expressionism, Pop,
Minimalism and Conceptualism only to lift their moves and mock them. His work
can be daintily detailed and virtuosic, it can also look polish-aversive and
incomplete. This career retrospective is true to its subject: episodic,
patience-demanding, idea-packed, riddled with weakness that adds up to strength.
Its basic message: get confused; be free. 212-708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)

Museum of Modern Art: 'Designing Modern Women 1890-1990' (through Sept. 21)
Shoehorned into half the museum's design department, this conversation-starting
display of objects from MoMA's permanent collection features items designed by
more than 60 women, many of whom worked with male partners. Some, like Marianne
Brandt and Eileen Gray, are well known to design aficionados, but most will be
unfamiliar to a general audience. Most objects were created for domestic
consumption. The pièce de résistance is a kitchen designed by Charlotte Perriand
for the apartments in Le Corbusier's Unité d'Habitation in Marseille, France.
212-708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)

&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Jasper Johns: Regrets' (through Sept. 1) What do
you do if you're a busy museum, and an eminent and famously enigmatic artist in
late career tells you he's prepared to go public with new work? You shake up
your schedule, clear out some space, and move the stuff in, pronto. That's more
or less what the Museum of Modern Art did in the case of its straight-from-the
studio show of new paintings, drawings and prints based on a 1964 photograph
taken of Lucian Freud that Mr. Johns found in a Christie's London sales catalog
of work by Francis Bacon. The result is a multipart variation on the theme of
mortality that feels assured, centered, sagely alive. 212-708-9400, moma.org.
(Cotter)

&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Lygia Clark: The Abandonment of Art, 1948-1988'
(through Aug. 24) The first North American survey of this pioneer of relational
aesthetics and social-practice art is a lavish, fast-moving affair. In 300
objects it follows an artist who didn't so much abandon art as push it slowly,
painstakingly and even logically -- in small abstract paintings, wall pieces and
flexible sculptures -- to a place where objects and materials were meant to be
handled and viewers became participants, alone or in groups. 212-708-9400,
moma.org. (Smith)

Museum of Modern Art: 'Robert Heinecken: Object Matter' (through Sept. 7) The
conceptual photographer Robert Heinecken, who died in 2006 at 74, was ahead of
his time in some ways -- and hopelessly retrograde in others. The technically
experimental, media-savvy work he made in the 1960s and '70s paved the way for
appropriation artists like Richard Prince and Sherrie Levine, and for the
digital-image samplers who dominate photo exhibitions today. Yet much of it
looked, and still looks, oblivious to the advent of feminism. That
backward-forward sensibility is highly apparent in Heinecken's first posthumous
retrospective, which includes his mash-ups of men's magazines and popular
newsweeklies and ''videograms'' made by pressing Cibachrome paper against a
television screen. 212-708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)

&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'A World of Its Own: Photographic Practices in
the Studio' (through Oct. 5) This mostly lively if repetitive overview traces
the history of photography as the Modern never has -- with images taken in the
studio rather than out in the world. Its roughly 180 works span 160 years and
represent some 90 portraitists, commercial photographers, lovers of still life,
darkroom experimenters, Conceptual artists and several generations of
postmodernists. Including film and video, it offers much to look at, but dwells
too much in the past, becoming increasingly blinkered and cautious as it
approaches the present. 212-708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)

Museum of the City of New York: 'City as Canvas: Graffiti Art from the Martin
Wong Collection' (through Sept. 1) Drawn from a collection of graffiti-related
materials assembled by the artist Martin Wong, this fascinating show and its
indispensable catalog chronicle the rise and fall of the calligraphic, illegal
art form known as ''wild style'' graffiti in New York in the 1970s and '80s.
Presenting about 150 paintings, drawings, sketchbooks and documentary
photographs, it features works by most of the underground movement's stars,
including Daze (given name Chris Ellis), Dondi (Donald White), Futura 2000
(Leonard McGurr) and Lady Pink (Sandra Fabara). Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street,
212-534-1672, mcny.org. (Johnson)

Museum of the City of New York: 'Gilded New York' (continuing) This period-piece
of a show revolves around the ritual of the fancy-dress ball: an occasion for
lavish expenditures by both host and guests. The gallery, upholstered in
eggplant-colored brocade and stuffed with silver and porcelain, could serve as a
set for the latest Wharton adaptation or Julian Fellowes's much-anticipated
American follow-up to ''Downton Abbey.'' Two mannequins wearing evening dresses
by Maison Worth of Paris have been posed conversationally before a fireplace
surround of Italian marble; one of them is clad in the sparkling ''Electric
Light'' dress, festooned with silver bullion, worn by Mrs. Cornelius Vanderbilt
II at the Vanderbilt Ball of 1883. In the catalog, and just outside the gallery,
photographs show guests at other balls dressed (with no apparent irony) as
kings, queens and courtiers from Versailles. Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street,
212-534-1672, mcny.org. (Rosenberg)

&#x2605; Neue Galerie: 'Degenerate Art: The Attack on Modern Art in Nazi
Germany, 1937' (through Sept. 1) This show -- one of the first in decades in an
American museum to address, on a fairly large scale, the Nazi demonizing of art
-- tells a complicated story. The basic facts of the narrative, which centers on
Hitler's grand plan to purify German culture of Modernist, Bolshevist and Jewish
influence, are well known, and it culminated in the infamous 1937 ''Degenerate
Art'' exhibition in Munich. The Neue Galerie sets examples of art from that show
beside Nazi-approved work, addresses the persecutions of artists in Dresden and
touches on the suppression of the Bauhaus. There are gripping paintings and
sculptures as well as complex and haunting personalities every step of the way.
And in the end the links between aesthetics and disaster are clear. 1048 Fifth
Avenue, at 86th Street, 212-628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Cotter)

&#x2605; New Museum: Roberto Cuoghi: 'Suillakku Corral' (through June 29) This
new sound installation from a deeply eccentric Italian artist jettisons the art
object without losing physical intensity, and conjures a distant world with
almost scary immediacy. Its influence is enhanced by the mind-boggling
combination of research, imagination and its back story. It is among the
greatest works of art currently available in a New York museum. 235 Bowery, at
Prince Street, Lower East Side, 212-219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Smith)

&#x2605; New Museum: Camille Henrot: 'The Restless Earth' (through June 29) The
first New York museum show of the winner of the Silver Lion (for most promising
artist) at the last Venice Biennale reveals impressive chops in sculpture,
etchings and drawing, all connected by a polymorphous interest in nature,
otherness, colonialism and systems of knowledge and faith. The standout remains
the video (and Venice prizewinner), ''Grosse Fatigue,'' an ecstatic pile-on of
images and spoken-word genesis narratives, both religious and scientific. 235
Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, 212-219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Smith)

&#x2605; New Museum: Ragnar Kjartansson: 'Me, My Mother, My Father and I'
(through June 29) Mr. Kjartansson's latest musical endurance-art piece has 10
young male singer-guitarists taking part in a nonstop serenade. The performance
accompanies a long-ago sex scene in a film starring his parents, using the
dialogue as lyrics. The show is deepened by three short videos made five years
apart of the artist's mother spitting in his face, a grueling exercise that
emerges as a charged meditation on the difference between growing up and growing
old. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, 212-219-1222, newmuseum.org.
(Smith)

&#x2605; Queens Museum: '13 Most Wanted Men: Andy Warhol and the 1964 World's
Fair' (through Sept. 7) Fifty years ago this spring, the 1964 World's Fair
opened in Flushing Meadows, Queens, and was accompanied by a scandal so quiet
almost no one noticed it. Several contemporary artists had been hired to create
work for the exterior of the New York State Pavilion. Andy Warhol's contribution
consisted of a mural of 13 giant mug shots lifted from a police brochure. On
order of fair officials, Warhol's piece was completely obliterated just days
before the event opened. Who ordered the censorship, and why, are among the
subjects of this fascinating art-and-archive show at this museum, which stands
just yards away from where the erasure took place. Flushing Meadows-Corona Park,
718-592-9700, queensmuseum.org. (Cotter)

&#x2605; Studio Museum in Harlem: 'Carrie Mae Weems: The Museum Series' (through
June 29) A set of recent pictures by Carrie Mae Weems are on view here as a
supplement to the Guggenheim Museum's ''Carrie Mae Weems: Three Decades of
Photography and Video'' exhibition. These images show the artist dwarfed by the
facades of international art institutions -- the Louvre, the Tate Modern, and so
on -- which, to quote the Studio Museum news release, ''affirm or reject certain
histories through their collecting or display decisions. 144 West 125th Street,
Harlem, 212-864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Cotter)

&#x2605; Studio Museum in Harlem: 'When the Stars Begin to Fall: Imagination and
the American South' (through June 29) Titled after the chorus of the spiritual
''My Lord, What a Mornin','' this group show takes the nebulous ''visionary''
label given to many self-taught artists and traces it back, loosely, to Southern
culture and experience. It's impossible not to be charmed by the exhibition's
many intergenerational exchanges, or by what its curator, Thomas J. Lax,
invoking a James Brown song, calls the gutbucket-funky aesthetic of many of the
works. But at times, you feel that the exhibition is simply bouncing from one
myth (that of the self-taught artist working in isolation) to another (of the
South as a magical, fertile dreamscape). 144 West 125th Street, Harlem,
212-864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Rosenberg)

Galleries: Uptown

&#x2605; Lynda Barry: 'Everything: Part I' (through July 11) In the world of
cartoon and comic art, Ms. Barry is a hall of famer. This wonderfully engaging
show presents a selection of more than 100 original comic strips, drawings and
collages from the past 35 years by the artist best known for her long-running
series ''Ernie Pook's Comeek.'' Adam Baumgold, 60 East 66th Street, Manhattan,
212-861-7338, adambaumgoldgallery.com. (Johnson)

Galleries: Chelsea

&#x2605; Darren Bader (through June 21) This unusual three-in-one show (on the
walls, floor and front desk) takes over space, the eye and the mind in thorough
and beguiling, if riddling, ways. Presenting familiar but unlabeled photographs
and anonymous everyday objects (now ready-made), it challenges memory and
perception, and reveals the creation of value (and art) as deeply participatory.
Andrew Kreps Gallery, 537 West 22nd Street, 212-741-8849, andrewkreps.com.
(Smith)

&#x2605; Mary Carlson: 'paradise' (through June 21) Mary Carlson's wonderfully
soulful little porcelain sculptures in this show represent Adam and Eve and
various Christian saints. Based on figures from old master paintings, they range
from four to six inches tall and are glazed in watery colors that appear faded
by time. They wear layered robes and have dots for eyes in their smooth,
doll-like heads. Though far from realistic, they feel unusually alive in their
postures and gestures. Elizabeth Harris Gallery, 529 West 20th Street,
212-463-9666, elizabethharrisgallery.com. (Johnson)

&#x2605; Nancy Grossman: 'The Edge of Always, Constructions From the 1960s'
(through July 3) Before starting the leather-hooded heads for which she is best
known, Ms. Grossman produced a remarkable but little-seen series of reliefs
cobbled together from dismembered biker jackets, boots and luggage. The
twisting, turning compositions evoke midair collisions and eviscerated
carcasses, and are often so triumphantly on top of current artistic developments
that you may almost laugh. Michael Rosenfeld Gallery, 100 11th Avenue, at 19th
Street, 212-247-0082, michaelrosenfeldart.com. (Smith)

Galleries: Other

Liz Deschenes: 'Stereographs #1-4 (Rise/Fall)' (through June 25) Ms. Deschenes
is one of the quiet giants of post-conceptual photography, but she is also
increasingly engaged with the legacy of minimalism. Four elongated photograms
made by exposing photographic paper to moonlight are mounted on Dibond and hung
on the walls in a symmetrical fashion that mimics both 19th-century stereoscopy
and the receding lines of linear perspective. This installation is also shaped
by the recessed ceiling of Abreu's space, the muted floor tiles and the history
of the room, which functioned at one point as a Buddhist temple. ''Photography''
in her hands becomes immanently material, with images, stereoscopes and other
devices structuring our experience as concretely as the architectural spaces in
which they are displayed. Miguel Abreu Gallery, 36 Orchard Street, Lower East
Side, 212-995-1774, miguelabreugallery.com. (Martha Schwendener)

&#x2605; 'Energy That Is All Around: Mission School' (through July 12) This
lively show focuses on five artists who came of age in the 1990s while living in
San Francisco's Mission district. Chris Johanson, Margaret Kilgallen, Barry
McGee, Alicia McCarthy and Ruby Neri didn't form a collective, but they shared a
Beatnik- and hippie-like, predigital sensibility. They liked funky cartooning,
offbeat social satire, quirky abstraction, folk art and old-fashioned graphic
styles, and they favored found, roughly used materials to paint and draw on.
Their work is simultaneously upbeat and downbeat, animated by both puppyish
enthusiasm and prickly negativity. The exhibition presents more than 130 objects
dating from 1990 to 2013. Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington
Square East, Greenwich Village, 212-998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart. (Johnson)

Sam Moyer: 'More Weight' (through June 22) Heavier here means more serious,
ambitious and altogether better. That is exemplified by two series of paintings,
which question (even mock) painterliness without abandoning it, and a wonderful
installation that -- perhaps in something of a feminist riposte -- redistributes
the poundage of Richard Serra's massive ''Delineator'' (1974-75). The lower
steel plate is replaced by a thick slab of veined white marble, the upper one by
a diaphanous painting canopy. A magical pavilion, exhilarating to walk on,
results. Rachel Uffner Gallery, 170 Suffolk Street, near Houston Street, Lower
East Side, 212-274-0064, racheluffnergallery.com. (Smith)

&#x2605; Joyce Robins: 'Paint and Clay' (through June 22) The combinations of
clay, craquelure glaze and watercolor are demonstrated in vibrant wall pieces
whose all-over patterns of holes or scooped out craters -- redolent of craft and
function -- are given a double, painterly consciousness with diffuse tints of
color. The more you look the more you see about seeing. Theodore:Art, 56 Bogart
Street, at Harrison Place, Bushwick, Brooklyn, 212-966-4324, theodoreart.com.
(Smith)

Public Art

Sophie Calle: 'Rachel, Monique' (through June 25) Wandering into the sumptuous,
neo-Gothic chapel of the Episcopal Church of the Heavenly Rest, you might think
you'd come upon the lovingly arranged setting for a funeral. In fact, you've
walked into an installation by the French conceptualist Sophie Calle. It's an
elegiac, sad yet in some ways humorous meditation on the life and death of Ms.
Calle's mother, Monique Sindler, who died in 2006. Episcopal Church of the
Heavenly Rest, 2 East 90th Street, 212-289-3400, heavenlyrest.org. (Johnson)

&#x2605; Kara Walker: 'A Subtlety, or the Marvelous Sugar Baby' (through July 6)
Commissioned by Creative Time, this stinging, site-specific installation
presents an immense, sugarcoated woman-sphinx with undeniably black features and
a web of meaning. Beautiful, brazen and haunting, she evokes the history of the
sugar trade, its dependence on slavery and slavery's particular degradation of
women, while also illuminating the plagues of obesity and diabetes that keep so
many American dreams unfulfilled. An actively sculpted power image, she also
knows that the country's future is much less white, racially, than its past.
Domino Sugar Factory, South First Street and Kent Avenue, Williamsburg,
Brooklyn, creativetime.org. (Smith)

Out of Town

&#x2605; Dia:Beacon: 'Carl Andre: Sculpture as Place, 1958-2010' (through March
2) Minimalism was the late 20th century's great hope for a heroic American art
on the Abstract Expressionism model. Carl Andre was one of Minimalism's
founders. This career survey of his low-to-the-ground modular sculptures looks
terrific in Dia's sonorous, sunlight-washed spaces. It also poses the question
of how such monument-minded art can feel so modest, intimate -- even delicate.
The real treat here is the chance to see dozens of manuscript pages of Mr.
Andre's 1960s poems, which he referred to as ''typewriter drawings.'' Carefully
shaped on the page in lines and blocks, they are evidence of a sculptor-to-be at
work. 3 Beekman Street, Beacon, N.Y., 845-440-0100, diacenter.org. (Cotter)

&#x2605; National Gallery of Art: 'Degas/Cassatt' (through Oct. 5) With just 70
works squeezed into four small galleries, this show about the unlikely but
long-lasting friendship between Mary Cassatt and Edgar Degas is not your typical
Impressionist blockbuster. Familiar paintings and pastels are outnumbered here
by prints and drawings. But that focus ultimately proves to be a smart decision;
the unpolished, process-oriented works by Degas and Cassatt present both artists
in a new light, allowing viewers a glimpse of the inspiration each found in the
work of the other. One exception to the limited role of major paintings: the
Cassatt masterpiece ''Little Girl in a Blue Armchair,'' from the National
Gallery's collection, fresh from a trip to the conservation lap. On the National
Mall, between Third and Seventh Streets, at Constitution Avenue NW, Washington,
202-737-4215, nga.gov. (Rosenberg)

Last Chance

'Common Spaces' (closes on Saturday) Being conceptually oriented and
activist-minded, the annual exhibitions organized by the curatorial fellows of
the Whitney Museum of American Art's Independent Studies Program are anomalies
these days, and for that reason automatically of interest. This year's show,
''Common Spaces,'' has a timely post-Occupy Wall Street theme -- about terrain
that should be public property but isn't unless political action is taken to
make it so -- and several good artists. Not everything works, but enough does to
make you want to hang around and figure out what's going on. The Kitchen, 512
West 19th Street, Chelsea, 212-255-5793, thekitchen.org. (Cotter)

&#x2605; Ibrahim El-Salahi: 'Selected Works, 1962-2010' (closes on Saturday)
This Sudanese artist, one of the leading figures in African and Arab modernism,
has had a thoroughly cosmopolitan career, beginning with art studies in
Khartoum, London and New York. He was deeply networked in artist circles across
Africa during the post-colonial 1960s, taught in Sudan for years and, after
being jailed for political reasons in the 1970s, now lives in exile in England.
This fine small show of small paintings and drawings covers the span of his
work, from 1960s abstraction derived in part from Arabic calligraphy, to a later
melding of naturalism and abstraction with African, Arabic and Western
influences. Skoto Gallery, 529 West 20th Street, fifth floor, Chelsea,
212-352-8058, skotogallery.com. (Cotter)

&#x2605; Frick Collection: 'Renaissance and Baroque Bronzes From the Hill
Collection' (closes on Sunday) This sensational, beautifully presented show of
33 late-15th- to early-18th-century bronzes reflects a taste for historically
important, big-statement examples in exceptional condition. They vividly show
the Renaissance's new interest in antiquity and the human form while encouraging
concentration on emotional expression, refined details (great hair!), struggling
or relaxed figures, and varied patinas. Works by the reigning geniuses
Giambologna, Susini and the lesser-known Piamontini dominate, further enlivened
by a handful of old master and late-20th-century paintings from the Hill
collection. 1 East 70th Street, 212-288-0700, frick.org. (Smith)

'Image and Matter in Japanese Photography From the 1970s' (closes on Saturday)
The works in this show were created not long after the 1968 student protests in
Japan and the renewal of the Japan-United States Security Treaty in 1970. In
this context, artists were drawn to challenging traditional photography, which
relied on what some considered deceptive tactics to depict ''reality.'' Jiro
Takamatsu's ''Photograph of Photograph'' and Norio Imai ''Fragments of Images''
divorce images from standard readability, while works by Keiji Uematsu, Masafumi
Maita and Kanji Wakae document performances or disrupt conventional modes of
perspective, depth and flatness. Marianne Boesky Gallery, 118 East 64th Street,
212-680-9889, marianneboeskygallery.com. (Schwendener)

&#x2605; Christine Meisner: 'Disquieting Nature' (closes on Saturday) For this
multimedia project on the roots of blues music, this Berlin artist took a
six-week trip through the Mississippi Delta region, filming places both
associated with notable musicians and with anti-black violence. The atmospheric
installation that resulted, which includes a commissioned score and a
ballad-like script written by the artist, is the second of what will eventually
by a three-part work on the theme of American history, music and liberty. The
Walther Collection Project Space, 508-526 West 26th Street, Suite 718, Chelsea,
212-352-0683, walthercollection.com. (Cotter)

Oscar Murillo: 'A Mercantile Novel' (closes on Saturday) Rather than present new
canvases that might counter his reputation as an artistic lightweight -- or at
least satisfy art-flipping collectors -- this hot young painter has shifted
gears with an elaborate slice-of-life installation piece. Using laborers
specially flown in, it recreates the workings and the product (chocolate-covered
marshmallows) of the candy factory in Mr. Murillo's hometown in Colombia,
enacting his humble beginnings with the self-mythologizing hubris typical of
young males wielding paintbrushes. David Zwirner, 525 West 19th Street, Chelsea,
212-727-2070, davidzwirner.com. (Smith)

New-York Historical Society: 'Bill Cunningham: Facades' (closes on Sunday) This
exhibition of 80 gelatin silver prints by Mr. Cunningham, who has chronicled
fashion and society in pictures for The New York Times for years, was completed
37 years ago, but the photographs appear as a breath of fresh air. The result of
a long-term collaboration between Mr. Cunningham and his fellow photographer and
neighbor, Editta Sherman, who died last year at 101, his photographs show her on
the streets of New York wearing ensembles that match the architecture that
exemplifies the period, ranging from the late 18th century to the 1950s. 170
Central Park West, at 77th Street, 212-873-3400, www.nyhistory.org. (Glenn
O'Brien)

&#x2605; Mika Rottenberg: 'Bowls Balls Souls Holes' (closes on Saturday) The
centerpiece of this show, a delirious 28-minute video titled ''Bowls Balls Souls
Holes,'' takes viewers on a mind-blowing trip through time and space, from a
Harlem bingo parlor to melting ice in a polar sea and from a seedy urban hotel
to the subterranean depths of a parallel universe. At every moment things are
seen with a cinematic lucidity that makes the preposterous seem plausible and
the mundane magical. Andrea Rosen, 525 West 24th Street, Chelsea, 212-627-6000,
andrearosengallery.com. (Johnson)



                              
 For Businesses and the G.O.P., a Cantor Effect

 

WASHINGTON -- The day after Representative Eric Cantor became the first
congressional leader in modern times to lose his seat in a primary, one of the
biggest aftershocks occurred not on Capitol Hill or in the sprawling Richmond
suburbs he has represented for more than a decade but on the New York Stock
Exchange.

The share price of Boeing tumbled, wiping out all the gains it had made this
year, a drop analysts attributed to the startling defeat.

While he was often an adversary to both the Tea Party and Democrats in Congress,
Mr. Cantor, a Republican and the House majority leader, was also a powerful ally
of business big and small, from giants like Boeing to the many independently
owned manufacturers and wholesalers that rely on the federal government for
financial support.

His loss at the hands of David Brat, a Tea Party-inspired economics professor
who campaigned on throwing corrupt Wall Street bankers in jail, railed against
crony capitalism and insisted that immigration reform would only reward
lawbreakers, spurred business leaders to mobilize to preserve their clout in
Congress. Already uneasy over what they see as an especially hostile strain of
anticorporate populism growing within the conservative movement, and threatening
the traditional corporate-friendly centers of power inside the Republican Party,
many businesses fear the loss of some of their strongest champions on Capitol
Hill.

In addition to Mr. Brat's victory over Mr. Cantor, another populist
conservative, Chris McDaniel, nearly unseated six-term Senator Thad Cochran of
Mississippi, a Republican who embodies the party's Chamber of Commerce wing, in
a primary, forcing him into a runoff.

Leaders in the financial community still have a formidable force of allied
lawmakers and hired lobbyists in Washington. But several major initiatives that
business hoped to see through Congress this year are in doubt. There is the
reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank, a vital line of support for small
businesses and large manufacturers, immigration reform and financing for the
nation's highway system.

Mr. Cantor's loss is much more than just symbolism. He has been one of Wall
Street's most reliable benefactors in Congress. And Mr. Brat used that fact to
deride the majority leader as someone who had rigged the financial system. In
one recent speech, he accused lawmakers like Mr. Cantor of favoring ''special
tax credits to billionaires instead of taking care of us, the normal folks.''

The majority leader stopped a provision -- reviled by the industry -- in the
Stock Act of 2012 that would have required hedge funds to disclose more about
how they gather market-sensitive intelligence. He battled with conservative
lawmakers to extend the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, a top priority of the
insurance industry, which has helped it recover from losses after the Sept. 11
attacks. He helped scuttle White House proposals to collect more taxes from
private equity firms. His wife, Diana, has had a career in banking, working for
Goldman Sachs and New York Private Bank & Trust.

No industry was more generous to Mr. Cantor's campaign than financial services.
The three largest contributors in this election cycle, in which he collected
$5.4 million, were Goldman Sachs, the Blackstone Group and Scoggin Capital
Management.

As his ambitions to one day lead the House grew, so did his relationships with
those donors.

Lloyd C. Blankfein, Goldman's chief executive, called the loss of Mr. Cantor
''stunning'' and praised him as a sensible legislator in an interview on CNBC.

Those business interests, caught off guard by Mr. Cantor's defeat, are moving
quickly to ensure that Mr. Cochran does not meet the same fate.

Last week, many of Washington's top corporate lobbyists, representing an array
of industries like shipping and telecommunications, gathered on Capitol Hill for
a fund-raiser that brought in $800,000 for Mr. Cochran's runoff election on June
24.

Senator Mitch McConnell, a Republican and the minority leader, who made a rare
personal plea for donors to attend, told the crowd that the event was the
biggest he had ever hosted, according to one lobbyist who was there. (The event
was first reported by Politico.)

''People sometimes awaken when they see something like that,'' Senator Orrin G.
Hatch, Republican of Utah, said of the late-surging support for Mr. Cochran from
the business world.

The biggest donors to the political committees supporting Mr. Cochran's campaign
have all been large corporations like the defense contractors Raytheon and
General Atomics. Michael R. Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York, wrote a
check for $250,000 last month.

One priority of business that is in the most immediate jeopardy given Mr.
Cantor's defeat is the Export-Import Bank, which companies like Boeing and
General Electric and hundreds of smaller companies rely on to provide subsidized
loans to foreign customers. Eliminating the bank has become a conservative cause
on par with repealing the Affordable Care Act.

The Export-Import Bank helps sales of American goods by guaranteeing loans to
overseas customers and providing working capital to manufacturing companies at
home. Stock analysts said Boeing expected the bank to enable $10 billion in
sales this year by helping its customers finance purchases. Mr. Cantor's loss
jeopardized the future of the bank.

Mr. Cantor struck a deal in 2012 with the No. 2 Democrat in the House, Steny H.
Hoyer of Maryland, to extend the bank's charter for three years.

''Cantor was the hub for finance, the hub for a host of big corporations that
could trust him to get things done,'' said Sean West, the head of United States
analysis for the Eurasia Group, which advises corporations about political risk.
''He was the one standing between the conservative pitchforks and the business
community on a whole host of issues.''

Democrats like Mr. Hoyer said Mr. Cantor was often more of an obstacle than a
compromiser. In that sense, they are not grieving over his departure. ''Cantor
was neither the facilitator or creator of gridlock, but he was way too careful
of getting too far out ahead of the right wing,'' Mr. Hoyer said, adding that he
was not writing off all hopes of legislative progress.

Another issue seen as fundamental to businesses all over but probably more
imperiled given Mr. Cantor's loss is financing for the nation's crumbling
highway system. Many conservatives have balked at replenishing a highway trust
fund that is about to run out of money. But business groups, led by the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, have argued that the trust fund is essential for the
nation's competitiveness given the major infrastructure investments made by
competitors like China.

''It's a priority to anybody involved in the interstate transportation of
goods,'' said Dirk Van Dongen, president of the National Association of
Wholesaler-Distributors.

''We'll never know what this Congress might have done for the remainder of the
year if Eric Cantor had not lost,'' Mr. Van Dongen said. ''There are those that
could make the case -- and make it credibly -- that no matter what might have
happened, much less and probably nothing at all, in fact, is going to happen
now.''

What has concerned many businesses with a stake in federal policy is a growing
anger on the right from people who can sound more Occupy Wall Street than Tea
Party.

''You could even make a case that there's a lot in common between the Tea Party
types and the Elizabeth Warren liberals,'' said Gregory R. Valliere, the chief
political strategist for the Potomac Research Group. ''The impact of what's
happened is going to make Republicans in the House apprehensive about appearing
to be too cozy to business.''

Conservatives like Mr. Brat would describe their views as more free market than
anything else. They mistrust Wall Street and Washington, but diverge with the
populist left on things like mandatory minimum wages and the necessity of a
social safety net. Mr. Brat attacked Mr. Cantor for running on the ''Chamber of
Commerce growth plan,'' but also would repeal the Affordable Care Act.

Beyond their priorities in Congress, what has unsettled business executives is
what they sense as a growing anger over the ''corporate welfare'' and ''crony
capitalism'' among many associated with the Tea Party.

Michael Boyle, chief executive of Boyle Energy Services & Technology in Concord,
N.H., said he started hearing companies like his, which depend on loans
guaranteed by the Export-Import Bank, derided as beneficiaries of crony
capitalism about six months ago.

''This whole crony capitalism thing depends on which side you're sitting on,''
he said. ''It's a great word to throw up in an election cycle, especially a
vicious election cycle.'' He added, ''And I'm a Republican.''



                              
 Packed With Technology, Prepped for Hyperbole

 

Pull up to the 7-Eleven in this car and you feel like Leonard Bernstein arriving
at Lincoln Center. Ride in the back and you're escorting Julie Andrews to the
Oscars. The doors are substantial enough to repel anything Occupy Wall Street
throws at them, and it's effortlessly powerful enough to outrun any S.E.C.
subpoena. The 2014 Mercedes-Benz S550 4Matic sedan is so advanced it should be
in geosynchronous orbit over Gstaad.

The new S-Class wears hyperbole well. It isn't merely a new version of
Mercedes's largest sedan, but a technological leap beyond its ancestors. It's
built differently, ambitious in its details and utterly indomitable in how it
behaves and performs. It's not the car of the future, but it's the car that some
car of the future will be measured against.

Yes, it's luxurious, but concentrating on that is to miss its fundamental
brilliance. It's a new and better Mercedes, but the liturgy is familiar. It's
the only car in the current line that comes only with a traditional radiator
shell and tristar hood ornament. The car is too dignified and temperate for a
big corporate logo in the middle of its grille.

While the entire skin of the new S-Class is aluminum, a steel cage structure
undergirds and supports it. The result, Mercedes asserts, is more rigid and
crash-resistant than the previous-generation S-Class, but slightly lighter. At
124.6 inches, the wheelbase carries over from the previous generation and the
overall length is still pegged at 2.5 inches beyond 17 feet. And at 4,773 pounds
when equipped with the optional 4Matic all-wheel-drive system, it's a road-bound
dreadnought.

It's not a car that draws attention, but it has a mature, reassuring presence.
It's the steel and aluminum embodiment of adult supervision: George C. Marshall
at the State Department or Dr. Zorba at County General Hospital. It's more
cleanly elegant than the previous S-Class, but hardly flamboyant.

Of course, Mercedes has adopted LED lighting, but it doesn't define this car's
face the way Audi's Glitter Gulch headlights do on the A8. It's the huge
radiator-shape grille that announces this car even at night. Down each side, the
flanks are sculpted to minimize the appearance of mass; the back end tapers to a
tall fantail.

Around the world, the S-Class is offered with engines ranging up from ordinary
V6s and diesels. In the United States, however, only gasoline-burning
twin-turbocharged V8s and V12s are offered. A hybrid will eventually be added.

The high-performance $142,425 S63 AMG 4Matic sedan uses a 5.5-liter V8 rated at
a thundering 577 horsepower. The $222,925 S65 AMG's 6-liter V12 runs at a mind-
and spine-boggling 621 horsepower.

There's also, starting at $167,825, the S600 with a 523-horsepower version of
the 6-liter V12 for buyers who want the creamy 12-cylinder experience without
the high-performance pretensions.

With a base price of $93,825, the S550 seems like a bargain compared with its
six-figure near-twins. And with a 4.7-liter version of the direct-injected,
twin-turbo V8 rated at 449 horsepower and 516 pound-feet of torque, it's thickly
muscled. Behind the engine is a 7-speed automatic transmission feeding the
4Matic system.

The $3,000 premium for 4Matic seems almost cheap. But adding in items like a
$4,500 Premium Package, a $5,900 Sport Package, $4,450 for Nut Brown Nappa
leather upholstery and the adorably named $2,600 Warmth and Comfort Package
brought the test car's bottom line to $121,345.

When warmth and comfort are on the options list, cuddly is unlikely to be part
of a car's character. And there is a coolness that's immediately apparent about
the new S-Class. Mercedes proudly hails this as the first car that doesn't have
a single bulb in it -- everything is lighted with LEDs. Opening the door brings
with it one of five selectable lighting themes. I nicknamed them Mirage,
Bellagio, Wynn, Encore and Golden Nugget.

That noted, the rest of the cabin is spectacular. Conventional gauges in the
dash have been replaced with two 12.3-inch high-resolution screens that
reconfigure themselves according to what the driver is doing at any moment. If
the night vision system is operating, for instance, the screen directly in front
of the driver displays what's in front of the car in high-contrast black and
white instead of the usual oversize speedometer and tachometer. The screen to
the right usually displays navigation information and the ventilation settings.

But the dazzling light show and video screens are a sideshow. It's the sweeping
shapes of the door panels and dashboard, accented with eyeball vents and
finished in various metallic surfaces, several different gorgeous woods and
leather that feels almost like velvet that elevate the S-Class beyond the
competition, which is often even more expensive.

Throw in heated, cooled, 16-way adjustable front thrones -- you can order up to
six massage programs including hot-stone effects -- and the most comfortable
back seat not found in a private rail car, and the effect is astonishing.

A cabin atomizer infuses the air with four scents: Nightlife Mood, Sports Mood,
Downtown Mood and Freeside Mood. They all smell like money to me.

Start the engine and it settles into nearly silent idle. A wand on the steering
column electronically engages the transmission, and then, it seems, the rest of
the world moves while the car stays put. The isolation of the passenger cell is
so thorough that the sensation of movement itself is muted. There is even a
second reverse gear to more gently guide this ship out of port. But as speed
grows, the S550's talents become increasingly apparent.

Tuned to produce its peak torque at a low 1,800 r.p.m., the S550's engine is
never stressed or strained in normal operation. At part throttle, the
transmission's seven gears change almost imperceptibly as the engine approaches
3,000 r.p.m. At full throttle, the engine will run to its operating limit of
6,300 r.p.m. But what's the point of doing that in this car?

Mercedes says the S550 will glide to 60 miles per hour in only 4.8 seconds, and
it's hard to believe anyone who can afford this car would be in that much of a
hurry.

Mercedes has updated and redesigned its Airmatic air suspension for the S-Class,
and it feels as if it obliterates road bumps as it hovers over them. Other cars
in this price class may be more in the vein of a sport sedan, but the S-Class --
the S550 at least -- is about isolation from the road.

That isolation doesn't come with an unmoored or floaty ride. It's as if the
Airmatic system creates an alternate reality to the road. And that, I might add,
was in an S550 lacking the optional Magic Body Control technology that scans the
road surface ahead with cameras and then adjusts suspension damping to match
what it sees.

There should be more feel through the electromechanical steering, and there's no
way to overcome the S550's mass as it winds through corners. But when it comes
to driving serenity while covering great distances over highways, there aren't
any better cars. It's so good, in fact, that it hardly needs a driver at all.

That's because Mercedes has embedded a system called Intelligent Drive that will
drive the car -- in 16-second bursts, at least. It's the logical extension of
existing technologies like the radar-based active cruise control, lane-keeping
systems and accident-avoidance sensors.

With the Distronic cruise control set, the Intelligent Drive system uses its
sensors to monitor cars in front, track the lines that define lanes on a highway
and scan for unexpected obstacles. With your hands on the steering wheel, you
can feel the system adjusting as the S550 enters gentle curves or reacts to
other cars entering in front of it. But the real fun comes as you take your
hands off the wheel and the car continues to drive itself.

Then, 11 seconds later, the S550 realizes you're behaving like an idiot and a
graphic shows up on the dash depicting a steering wheel with two red hands. Wait
another five seconds beyond that and a warning tone announces that the car is no
longer driving itself and the moron behind the wheel had better grab it.

So it's not quite set-and-forget self-driving yet. In fact, because the system
practically demands that the human driver pay attention, it's of only limited
utility. But it sure is fun to watch in action.

What's most satisfying about the S550 is how tightly it ties all the technology
together. Nothing feels tacked on; every bit of tech is a seamless part of the
car's character. And beyond that, it expands upon the virtues expected of a
large Mercedes -- it seems fantastically well built, supremely comfortable and
in every way impressively overengineered. It's not a cheap car, but it's a
bargain compared with the $267,800 Rolls-Royce Ghost, the $205,825 Bentley
Flying Spur or the $143,600 Maserati Quattroporte V8.

After the disappointing CLA250 that now sits at the bottom of the line, it's
reassuring that toward the top the company still knows how to build a real
Mercedes. After a hard day guiding the International Monetary Fund, arguing
before the Supreme Court or figuring out how to maximize the value of your
franchise's N.F.L. draft picks, this is the automotive decompression chamber you
deserve.



                              
 New York Today: Reading Room Refugees

 

 Good morning on this cloudy Wednesday.

About a month ago, in the Rose Main Reading Room, the cathedral-like gem of the
New York Public Library, a plaster rosette fell from the ceiling.

It plummeted after midnight, so nobody was hurt.

But the reading room remains closed for inspections and will not reopen for
about six months.

The news shocked regulars - scholars, writers, obsessives - many of whom used
the reading room as an office, even as a second home.

Jacob Adams, who is writing a book about the future of Israel, in red ballpoint
pen, said he had been working in the reading room for 10 years.

He traveled from the Bronx every weekday, arriving as the reading room opened to
claim his usual spot among its 450 seats.

"Work is done night and day in New York - why don't they work faster?" he asked.

He added: "I'm just finishing my book. I'll be disappointed if I don't write the
last sentence there."

For now, he is working downstairs, in the Milstein Division, one of a number of
rooms receiving Rose refugees.

That room's denizens, for their part, were not thrilled by the recent arrivals.

"Interlopers," said Peter Klarnet, a historian. (But he smiled.)

Here's what else you need to know.

WEATHER

Refreshingly mediocre, with clouds most of the day, a high of 80, evening
showers likely and a downpour after 10 p.m.

Consider an umbrella.

COMING UP TODAY

Mayor de Blasio talks about the national task force on income inequality he is
heading in a taped interview on "Morning Edition" on  WNYC at 7:21 a.m. [Listen]

The Roots sing the praises of Kellogg's cereal at a sponsored performance at
Broadway and 54th Street. 10 a.m. [Free, includes cereal and milk]

More free food: bags of Smucker's Fruit-Fulls dangle from temporary trees in the
Flatiron plaza. 9 a.m. to 7 p.m.

Meta-reality TV: Watch a City Council hearing on working conditions on reality
shows. 10 a.m. [Livestream]

A 37-foot-high Jeff Koons artwork featuring more than 50,000 flowering plants
goes on display at Rockefeller Plaza. 11 a.m. [Free]

A Chinese billionaire will provide a lavish lunch in Central Park and $300 in
cash to 250 homeless people.

"Joyride," a show of bicycle-inspired art at Marlborough Broome Street, opens
the Bicycle Film Festival. 6 p.m. reception. [Free]

Songwriters play songs inspired by Julia Child's cookbook "Mastering the Art of
French Cooking," at Barbès  in Park Slope. 7 p.m. [$10 suggested]

A Puppy Prom shall be held at the Who's Your Doggy pet store near Fort Greene
Park. 8 p.m. [Free]

Mets host A's, 7:10 p.m. (SNY). Yankees at Blue Jays, 7:07 p.m. (YES).

For more events, see The New York Times Arts & Entertainment guide.

COMMUTE

Subway  and  PATH

L.I.R.R., Metro-North, N.J. Transit, Amtrak

Roads: Check traffic map or radio report on the 1s or the 8s.

Alternate-side parking: in effect till July 4.

Air travel: La Guardia, J.F.K., Newark.

IN THE NEWS

Charles B. Rangel leads Adriano D. Espaillat 47.4 to 43.6 percent with almost
all votes counted in their congressional primary, but Mr. Espaillat is not
conceding. [New York Times]

New rules will make it easier and faster for special-needs students in the city
to receive private education at public expense. [New York Times]

A man punched on a street in Queens by a stranger has died. The attacker asked
the man if he was Filipino before hitting him, a witness said. [DNAinfo]

A veteran graffiti artist is accused of causing $20,000 in damage to subway
cars. [New York Post]

Occupy Wall Street protesters arrested for a street-theater satire of the police
will receive $22,000 in a settlement with the city. [Huffington Post]

A stabbing victim walked into a McDonald's in Queens with a knife in his back,
looking for help. [CBS New York]

The M.T.A. says that sales of new MetroCards have plummeted since the agency
started levying a $1 surcharge, which is good. [Gothamist]

Manhattan prosecutors are showing no leniency to law-breaking daredevils. [New
York Times]

Travelers rated New York the world's most welcoming city and Paris the least. So
there.  [Huffington Post]

Scoreboard: Yanees beat selves, lose to Blue Jays, 7-6. Mets mow down A's, 10-1.

Kenneth Rosen contributed reporting.

New York Today is a weekday roundup that stays live from 6 a.m. till late
morning. You can receive it via email.

What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at
nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday.

Follow the New York Today columnists, Annie Correal and Andy Newman, on Twitter.

You can always find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.



                              
 Facebook Bid to Shield Data From the Law Fails, So Far

 

Facebook and the Manhattan district attorney's office are in a bitter fight over
the government's demand for the contents of hundreds of Facebook accounts.

In confidential legal documents unsealed on Wednesday, Facebook argues that
Manhattan prosecutors last summer violated the constitutional right of its users
to be free of unreasonable searches by demanding nearly complete account data on
381 people, ranging from pages they had liked to photos and private messages.

When the social networking company fought the data demands, a New York judge
ruled that Facebook had no standing to contest the search warrants since it was
simply an online repository of data, not a target of the criminal investigation.
To protect the secrecy of the investigation, the judge also barred the company
from informing the affected users, a decision that prevented the individuals
from fighting the data requests themselves.

The case, which is now on appeal, pits the Fourth Amendment right to be free
from unreasonable searches by the government against the needs of prosecutors to
seek evidence from the digital sources where people increasingly store their
most sensitive data.

The issue has risen repeatedly in court cases. Just before a Manhattan judge
lifted the seal on the Facebook case, the United States Supreme Court issued a
major decision on similar privacy issues, ruling 9 to 0 that cellphones are so
vital to people's lives that the police must get a warrant to search them, just
as they would need to do to search a person's home.

''In that case, they were talking about how revealing the information could be
on a cellphone. You could make a similar point about people's social media
profiles,'' said Kurt Opsahl, deputy general counsel of the Electronic Frontier
Foundation, a nonprofit group that promote digital civil liberties.

Lawyers for Facebook, which has about 1.28 billion active users worldwide, said
they were pressing the fight in the appellate courts because they were troubled
both by the vast scope of the district attorney's search warrants and by the
judge's ruling that Facebook could not challenge the warrants.

Prosecutors say that the information gleaned from the accounts contributed to
the highly publicized indictments in January and February of more than 130
police officers, firefighters and other civil servants on charges of defrauding
the Social Security system with fake disability claims. Photos posted on
Facebook showed supposedly disabled people riding personal watercraft, teaching
karate, deep-sea fishing and pursuing other vigorous activities. Those photos
supported other evidence, like wiretapped conversations, that prosecutors
gathered in their three-year investigation.

''This was a massive scheme involving as many as 1,000 people who defrauded the
federal government of more than $400 million in benefits,'' said Joan Vollero, a
spokeswoman for the Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr. ''The
defendants in this case repeatedly lied to the government about their mental,
physical and social capabilities. Their Facebook accounts told a different
story. A judge found there was probable cause to execute search warrants, and
two courts have already found Facebook's claims without merit.''

Orin S. Kerr, a law professor at George Washington University who is an expert
on digital searches and seizures, said Facebook was trying to do something
unusual in establishing a right for service providers to challenge a warrant.
''The real question is, 'Can they challenge warrants for their customers?' And I
think the answer is probably not, under current law,'' Mr. Kerr said.

Chris Sonderby, deputy general counsel for Facebook, said that if Facebook could
not challenge the warrants and the users remained in the dark, no one would ever
get the chance to object to the possible invasion of privacy. ''It appeared to
us from the outset that there would be a large number of people who were never
charged in this case,'' he said. ''The district attorney's response was that
those people would have their day in court. There are more than 300 people that
will never have that chance.''

Mr. Sonderby said that the district attorney's demand for data was far larger
than anything it had ever received from any other prosecutor. And Mr. Vance's
office was unwilling to discuss narrowing the scope of its requests to be more
directly relevant to its investigation.

The relationship was so chilly, said Mr. Sonderby, that when Facebook pressed
its challenge to the warrants, one of the prosecutors called and threatened to
press criminal contempt of court charges against the company and throw its
officials in jail. ''I've never seen anything like it,'' he said.

The district attorney's office said that about 600 possible suspects have been
identified, and the investigation was continuing. Prosecutors said they had
provided Supreme Court Justice Melissa C. Jackson with a 93-page affidavit with
evidence to support each of the individual warrants, including information from
wiretaps and documents filed with the Social Security Administration. They also
maintain almost everything in the Facebook pages was relevant, since the people
targeted in the investigation were faking mental illnesses to obtain benefits
and had claimed to be too sick to leave the house, travel or work.

Justice Jackson, in denying Facebook's effort to quash the warrants, said that
the government must be granted some latitude. ''In the course of a long-term
criminal investigation, the relevance or irrelevance of items seized within the
scope of a search warrant may be unclear and require further investigatory
steps,'' she wrote.

In its appeal, Facebook disagreed vehemently.

''The government's bulk warrants, which demand 'all' communications and
information in 24 broad categories from the 381 targeted accounts, are the
digital equivalent of seizing everything in someone's home. Except here, it is
not a single home but an entire neighborhood of nearly 400 homes,'' Facebook
wrote in a brief to the appeals court. ''The vast scope of the government's
search and seizure here would be unthinkable in the physical world.''

In a somewhat similar case in 2012, Manhattan prosecutors issued a subpoena to
Twitter, demanding that it turn over deleted messages that had been posted by an
Occupy Wall Street protester. In that case, a judge ruled that the protester had
no standing to contest the data request. Twitter resisted the request but was
ultimately ordered to turn over the information.

Lee Rowland, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union, said the breadth
of the search warrants, which had no time limits or any limits on topics, was
troubling. It strains belief, she said, that every posting, picture and message
in the Facebook files turned over to the state were necessary to the case.

''It's incredibly important in the digital context to prevent government fishing
expeditions,'' she said.



                              
 Hong Kong's Democracy Supporters Chafe at Inequality and Beijing's
Sway

 

HONG KONG -- On a recent morning, Agnes Chow, 17, and another teenage activist
rode a van through the streets of Hong Kong, urging people through a loudspeaker
to vote in an informal referendum for a more democratic way to pick the city's
top leader. But the vote, which has been condemned as illegal by the Chinese
government, was about much more than the city's leadership, she said.

''I think the younger generation feels the future of Hong Kong falls on its
shoulders,'' said Ms. Chow, who was only 6 months old when Britain returned Hong
Kong to China. ''The inequality of the society is one of the reasons people have
come out to vote. The social issues are tied in because without a democratic
system, there is no pressure on the government to change.''

A surge of discontent is washing over this harbor city of 7.2 million people,
which has long taken pride in its status as an enclave of free enterprise, free
speech and independent courts abutting the Chinese mainland. The immediate
conflict is about how to elect Hong Kong's leader, the chief executive. But the
underlying resentment voiced by many here is that the city's political-business
machine is rigged against them.

In interviews, a cross section of society -- from lawyers, bankers and former
senior public servants to high school students -- said that since Hong Kong, a
former British colony, returned to Chinese sovereignty in 1997, an elite
beholden to the Chinese Communist Party has increasingly dominated the economy
and opportunity, as well as politics.

''We want a fair, open and equal election,'' said Simon Yau, 50, an employee of
a marketing firm, who voted in the referendum. ''The government has sided with
corporations, the rich.''

Signs of dissatisfaction are cropping up everywhere. The referendum, undertaken
by a grass-roots movement called Occupy Central With Love and Peace and a
university-affiliated polling group, aimed to collect 100,000 votes. By early
Saturday morning, nine days into a 10-day ballot period, it had collected more
than 750,000 votes. High school and university students have been among the most
ardent supporters, staffing polling booths and street stalls and coaxing parents
and siblings to cast ballots.

On Friday, hundreds of lawyers, many clad in black, marched from the High Court
in silent protest against a new policy paper from Beijing that they said
threatened the independence of Hong Kong judges and court officials by demanding
loyalty to China. The marchers, including eight former chiefs of the Hong Kong
Bar Association, say the policy could undermine judicial independence.

If the city fails to adopt a robustly democratic method for electing the chief
executive, the Occupy group has threatened to hold sit-ins and engage in civil
disobedience in the city's financial heart, Central. On Tuesday, the anniversary
of Hong Kong's return to China, groups opposed to mainland government policies
will stage an annual rally, providing the next important gauge of the public
mood.

Polls indicate discontent has been building. A telephone survey by the Hong Kong
Transition Project, conducted in December, found dissatisfaction with the way
the Chinese government was handling Hong Kong at its highest level in a decade,
with 52 percent of Hong Kong residents saying they were dissatisfied. Alienation
runs highest among the young, with 82 percent of people ages 21 to 29 saying
they were dissatisfied, and 65 percent of people in that age bracket saying they
were dissatisfied or very dissatisfied with life in the city.

''They are more sensitive to this great division of wealth,'' said Joseph Wong
Wing-ping, a former senior public servant in Hong Kong who has been critical of
what he calls the city leaders' submissiveness to Beijing. ''The society is
changing, and you have more and more of this discontented, active, sometimes
assertive civil society led by the younger generation.''

Unlike the Occupy Wall Street movement that began in New York in 2011, Hong
Kong's Occupy Central is not in revolt against the capitalist financial system,
and its leaders include well-paid lawyers, academics and financial investors.
But especially among the students and young activists who have been its most
ardent supporters, the political demands carry an edge of economic frustration.

Hong Kong has thrived economically since the end of British rule under an
arrangement known as ''one country, two systems,'' which allows it to retain
freedoms not permitted on the mainland. Today the skyline bristles with bright
new skyscrapers, and many public facilities, including the subway, are marvels
of efficiency. But the city's income inequality has risen since China resumed
sovereignty, after climbing steeply in the previous decade, and middle-class
residents increasingly link concerns about high home prices and living costs to
grievances about the political system.

Fueling a sense of unfairness, the Communist Party elite and their associates
play an increasingly prominent role in the city's business establishment. Six of
the 10 biggest companies on the Hong Kong stock market's Hang Seng index are
Chinese state-owned companies, with chief executives who are appointed by the
Communist Party.

Mainlanders with party ties also hold many influential positions in the city's
banking industry. JPMorgan Chase's former vice chairman for Asia investment
banking, Fang Fang, a member of a political advisory body to China's government,
was arrested in Hong Kong this year after being the subject of an American
corruption investigation. The descendants of many Communist leaders, including
grandsons of the former Chinese leaders Jiang Zemin and Deng Xiaoping, have
worked in Hong Kong investment companies.

Critics say Chinese patronage politics has warped the economy, shutting out
qualified people and skewing wealth distribution.

''It's not a fair playing field here,'' said Bill Tsang, 51, a retired stock
market executive who has helped recruit people in the financial sector to
support Occupy Central. ''Hong Kong nowadays becomes corrupt, and becomes not
performance-driven but relationship-driven.''

Anxieties over Hong Kong's future have coalesced around the issue of the chief
executive, who is currently selected by a 1,200-member committee dominated by
Chinese Communist Party loyalists. The Chinese government has promised to allow
the popular election of the chief executive starting in 2017, but it has
indicated it would retain control of choosing candidates to weed out those not
loyal to Beijing.

The Occupy referendum gives voters a choice of three methods, each allowing
candidates to secure a nomination by collecting the signatures of at least 1
percent of voters, currently about 35,000 names.

Beijing and its supporters accuse Occupy Central of being a Trojan horse for
subversion.

''We mustn't have wild thoughts and delusions,'' Christopher Cheung Wah-fung, a
businessman and member of Hong Kong's Legislative Council who supports Chinese
government policies, said in an interview. China has given Hong Kong many
economic benefits, he said. ''The only thing is that you must not use Hong Kong
as an anti-Communist base and affect domestic politics.''

The city government is expected to introduce its electoral overhaul plans late
this year, with guidance from Beijing. China has already said it rejects the
proposals for nomination by public petition, which would allow potential
candidates to bypass a nominating committee dominated by Beijing loyalists.

The push for democratic electoral change has won support from people like Mr.
Wong, the former civil servant, who were once pillars of the establishment but
now say China's encroachments are curtailing the freedoms that have made Hong
Kong Asia's biggest financial center.

Another supporter is Anson Chan, 74, Hong Kong's former chief secretary, the
second-highest post in government, who has become increasingly critical of the
Hong Kong government and Beijing, warning about what she sees as an erosion of
the autonomy that China promised to respect.

''I am personally extremely disappointed and in many ways very pained to see
what is happening to Hong Kong barely 17 years after the handover,'' she said in
an interview this month.

The youth of Hong Kong, who have grown up under Chinese tutelage, have little
compunction about opposing policies they abhor. Young protesters defeated a
''patriotic education'' curriculum proposed by the government in 2012 that
critics said sought to instill Communist Party dogma.

Alex Chow Yong Kang, 23, the secretary general of the Hong Kong Federation of
Students, said he had grown up assuming he would follow his father into
business, but he was jolted as a high school student in 2008 when he attended a
candlelight vigil for those killed in the 1989 crackdown around Tiananmen Square
in Beijing. (Mr. Chow is not related to Agnes Chow, the high school activist.)

Securing a broad democratic franchise for Hong Kong, he said, is the only way to
challenge the merging of party influence and elite business interests.

''I am a citizen of this country; why do I not have the right to a voice?'' he
asked. ''Why do I not have the right to nominate someone, or even to kick
someone out -- not to speak of the Communists, even the Hong Kong government?''

Mr. Chow said his mother worried that he might be arrested if the Occupy
movement carried out its threatened sit-in. '' 'Don't stand too close to the
front. Don't go to jail,' she told me.''

''Sometimes we have to fight for our beliefs,'' Mr. Chow said he replied.
''There's no alternative in Hong Kong.''



                              
 Suit Seeks to Establish a Right to Record Police Officers

 

A federal lawsuit, which cites arrests of people who recorded police
confrontations or activity, was filed on Tuesday asking a judge to declare that
people have a right under the First Amendment to film or record officers working
in public places.

The suit was filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan on behalf of one of
the people arrested, and seeks a permanent injunction barring New York City
employees from retaliating against those who record them in public.

There have been federal rulings in districts covering Baltimore, Boston and
Indianapolis, stating that recording officers in public places is protected by
the Constitution, but the rulings are limited only to those districts. There has
not been a decision recognizing that right in New York, said Norman Siegel, one
of the lawyers who filed the lawsuit.

Mr. Siegel said he wanted the City of New York to use police training procedures
similar to those that the Baltimore Police Department adopted after that city
agreed to settle a similar suit, filed by a man who accused the police of
seizing his cellphone and deleting a video he made of an arrest in 2010.

That case led the Justice Department to write a letter saying that people have
the right to record police officers, and adding that ''the justification for
this right is firmly rooted in longstanding First Amendment principles.''

In New York, the Police Department Patrol Guide states that ''taking
photographs, videotapes or tape recordings'' do not constitute probable cause
for arrest or detention so long as the activity does not jeopardize the safety
of officers or others.

Still, the newly filed lawsuit asserts that there is ''a widespread policy,
practice and custom'' of police interference with people who record them, with
some officers using their own phones to record people who are documenting police
activity, instructing people that they are not permitted to record and arresting
those who do.

Muriel Goode-Trufant, the chief of the federal litigation division at the city's
Law Department, said that she had not seen the lawsuit, but that the Police
Department had a clear policy that ''bystanders are allowed to film police
officers as long as they're not interfering with the officers' duties and/or
police operations.''

A Police Department spokesman did not respond to a request for comment.

The lawsuit described eight occasions, which Mr. Siegel said were based upon
video evidence, in which officers arrested people who were recording in public,
ordered them to leave or demanded that they delete images from cameras or
cellphones.

One account described the experiences of Debra Goodman, the plaintiff in the
suit, who was said to have been taking a cellphone video in 2013 on the Upper
West Side of Manhattan as emergency medical technicians spoke with a woman in a
wheelchair and officers stood nearby. As she did so, the suit said, an officer
began recording Ms. Goodman with his phone, demanded to see her identification
and then arrested her. The charges were eventually dismissed by prosecutors; she
is seeking unspecified damages.

In another account, also from 2013, a man named Diego Ibanez used a phone to
record officers making arrests inside a subway station. Although he was about 10
feet away, the lawsuit said, officers ordered him out of the station. Mr. Ibanez
responded that he would record from a different part of the platform, the suit
said, and was then arrested.

As he was in custody, an officer told him that he could avoid jail if he deleted
the recording he had made, the lawsuit said. The officer then tried to erase the
video, but did not do so correctly, the lawsuit said, which allowed Mr. Ibanez
to later recover the video, which showed him telling the police, ''You can film
police officers,'' just before his arrest.

Over the past several years, videos have sometimes resulted in prosecution of
officers or disciplinary proceedings. Video from 2008 that showed a police
officer named Patrick Pogan knocking over a bicyclist in Times Square, has
received nearly three million views on You Tube. The officer was eventually
convicted of making false statements about the episode in a criminal complaint.

And in 2011, widespread attention was given to a video showing Deputy Inspector
Anthony Bologna using pepper spray on a group of women while arrests were made
during an Occupy Wall Street march. A Police Department inquiry found that
Inspector Bologna, who was stripped of some vacation days, had violated
guidelines, and the Law Department declined to defend him in several civil
lawsuits.



                              
 One Rises, One Falls

 

THE GREAT GLASS SEABy Josh Weil

Illustrated. 474 pp. Grove Press. $27.

In 1866, the poet Fyodor Tyutchev wrote a piece of wisdom about Russia that used
to be quoted incessantly in books, articles, speeches and children's
anthologies, but never quite made it to the West:

You will not grasp her with your mindOr cover with a common label,For Russia is
one of a kind -- Believe in her, if you are able.

When contemporary politicians and journalists express frustration with recent
events in Russia, they seem to forget the country has always operated on
alternative logic and often in alternative reality.

''The Great Glass Sea,'' Josh Weil's fascinating debut novel (after a
well-received collection of novellas, ''The New Valley''), shows what it might
look like to follow Tyutchev's advice. Rather than trying to grasp Russia
intellectually, Weil creates a make-believe world and leaves it to the reader to
believe or not.

The novel introduces twin brothers in their 30s, Dmitriy Lvovich Zhuvov (known
as Dima) and Yaroslav Lvovich Zhuvov (known as Yarik). Brought up on a
collective farm by their Uncle Avya, a pipe-smoking, Pushkin-quoting peasant,
they have lived since the collapse of the Soviet Union in the fictional city of
Petroplavilsk -- an industrial center for generations that has come to be
dominated by the Oranzheria, a huge and ever-growing greenhouse controlled by
the ruthless but ingenious oligarch Bazarov. But Bazarov's real breakthrough
comes in the form of the zerkala, giant mirrors positioned in space to direct
sunlight back to Earth so it never gets dark in Petroplavilsk. The idea is
pretty much the same as daylight saving time: The zerkala increase productivity
and save energy even as they calm and subdue the residents: ''No long months of
winter brooding. . . . No evening-ushered crime spike.''

The brothers have the same job at the Oranzheria. Both work 12-hour shifts.
Yarik is married with two children. Dima lives with his pet rooster and his
mama, who is insane -- she spends her days sewing their garments shut so they
become unwearable, and Dima has to cut them open. Weil's descriptions of family
life are filled with many such striking and heartbreaking details.

Dima passionately loves Yarik. His feelings are as tender as they are consuming.
I can't think of any other novel that depicts fraternal love quite like this:

''He let his fingers squeeze his brother's wrist a little tighter. And when
Yarik's other hand pressed down on his, Dima shut his eyes. So it was a motion
he felt more than saw -- the weight of both their hands, Yarik's fingers
stilling Dima's thumb, then the breath of air beneath his own palm -- when his
brother lifted Dima's hand off.''

Yarik loves Dima too, but he is devoted to his wife and children, and his life
is mostly ruled by this devotion.

Then things change. Yarik attracts the attention of Bazarov and is endlessly
promoted until he becomes, literally, a poster child for the new socio-economic
system. The crucial conversation between Yarik and Bazarov memorably takes place
above ground in the steel bucket of a construction crane; the sinister
atmosphere evokes the conversation between the Devil and Ivan from ''The
Brothers Karamazov.''

Meanwhile, Dima decides to break his ties with the corporate world. He quits his
job. He starts riding buses all day long. He recites Pushkin's ''Ruslan and
Ludmila'' at the statue of Peter the Great. And he takes up with a group of
anti-oligarch, anti-­zerkala anarchists, who in some ways resemble Occupy Wall
Street activists. He even befriends one of them, a woman named Vika who tries to
introduce him to sex while he stubbornly insists on reciting ''Ruslan and
Ludmila'' to her. The brothers find themselves on opposite sides of the divide.
And the anticipation of disaster looms over the entire second part of the novel.
Something is bound to be destroyed. It could be the brothers' love. Or it could
be the evil but magnificent zerkala.

And they are magnificent. Weil surely intends the zerkala to signify the horrors
of contemporary capitalism, but his descriptions of them are always hauntingly
beautiful: ''Dusk to dawn the city was eerie with a luminescence like a
storm-smothered day with shadows sharp as noon.'' It was the zerkala, in fact,
that led me at first to read ''The Great Glass Sea,'' mistakenly, as an
alternative history along the lines of Philip Roth's ''The Plot Against
America'' or Vasily Aksyonov's ''The Island of Crimea'' (the plot-driving twist
in that case being that the Crimea is an island and not a peninsula). Both of
those books are firmly grounded in reality, which makes alternative events seem
terrifyingly plausible.

The idea of the zerkala likewise struck me as similar to very real, very Soviet
projects designed to conquer nature. At least since Stalin, Russia has engaged
in a continuous fight against nature. The verb pokorit (''to conquer'') became
popular in all discussions of the subject. Russians weren't interested in
exploring space but in ''conquering'' it; not in cultivating virgin lands but in
''conquering'' them. One of the most horrifying projects involved diverting
Siberian rivers to the south, so they might bring water to the agricultural
areas of Central Asia instead of simply dumping it into the Arctic Ocean. Plans
for this were in development for decades until they were finally abandoned
during the period of perestroika. Meanwhile, one recent project comes close to
the idea of the zerkala: the notorious ''Medvedev's time,'' in which the former
president Dmitri Medvedev extended daylight saving time so the midwinter sun now
rises around 10 a.m. and people are stimulated to work longer hours.

Because of these overlaps, I wasted a lot of time trying to ground the rest of
''The Great Glass Sea'' in other realities of post-Soviet Russia. Is
Petroplavilsk modeled on Petrozavodsk, I wondered? Is the village of Nizhi meant
to be the village of Kizhi? Is the oligarch Boris Romanovich Bazarov named after
a couple of real oligarchs and Turgenev's nihilist character? Is Yarik's young
son, Timofei, named after Nabokov's Timofey Pnin? Does Dima's golden rooster
allude to Pushkin's ''Golden Cockerel''? Are the gorgeous drawings at the start
of each chapter inspired by the Russian Mir iskusstva (World of Art) movement?

Some of this decoding works and some doesn't, but the important thing is that
none of it matters. What matters is the bizarre splendor of the images and the
alluring wackiness of the events. Weil isn't trying to capture a Russia grounded
in reality. Actually, he's not trying to capture Russia at all. If anything, the
novel's corporate world comes closer to the contemporary United States, with its
obsession with productivity and efficiency and its belief in the power of
advertising. It's easier to imagine Silicon Valley billionaires creating
something like the zerkala in their perpetual quest to ''make the world a better
place.'' Russian oligarchs are too busy trying to survive to embark on such
ambitious projects.

''The Great Glass Sea'' is not an alternative history, then, but a fantastical
vision inspired by bits and pieces of Russian language, history and culture. It
is beautifully baffled by the mysterious Russian soul.



                              
 All in All, a More Egalitarian World

 

Income inequality has surged as a political and economic issue, but the numbers
don't show that inequality is rising from a global perspective. Yes, the problem
has become more acute within most individual nations, yet income inequality for
the world as a whole has been falling for most of the last 20 years. It's a fact
that hasn't been noted often enough.

The finding comes from a recent investigation by Christoph Lakner, a consultant
at the World Bank, and Branko Milanovic, senior scholar at the Luxembourg Income
Study Center. And while such a framing may sound startling at first, it should
be intuitive upon reflection. The economic surges of China, India and some other
nations have been among the most egalitarian developments in history.

Of course, no one should use this observation as an excuse to stop helping the
less fortunate. But it can help us see that higher income inequality is not
always the most relevant problem, even for strict egalitarians. Policies on
immigration and free trade, for example, sometimes increase inequality within a
nation, yet can make the world a better place and often decrease inequality on
the planet as a whole.

International trade has drastically reduced poverty within developing nations,
as evidenced by the export-led growth of China and other countries. Yet contrary
to what many economists had promised, there is now good evidence that the rise
of Chinese exports has held down the wages of some parts of the American middle
class. This was demonstrated in a recent paper by the economists David H. Autor
of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, David Dorn of the Center for
Monetary and Financial Studies in Madrid, and Gordon H. Hanson of the University
of California, San Diego.

At the same time, Chinese economic growth has probably raised incomes of the top
1 percent in the United States, through exports that have increased the value of
companies whose shares are often held by wealthy Americans. So while Chinese
growth has added to income inequality in the United States, it has also
increased prosperity and income equality globally.

The evidence also suggests that immigration of low-skilled workers to the United
States has a modestly negative effect on the wages of American workers without a
high school diploma, as shown, for instance, in research by George Borjas, a
Harvard economics professor. Yet that same immigration greatly benefits those
who move to wealthy countries like the United States. (It probably also helps
top American earners, who can hire household and child-care workers at cheaper
prices.) Again, income inequality within the nation may rise but global
inequality probably declines, especially if the new arrivals send money back
home.

From a narrowly nationalist point of view, these developments may not be
auspicious for the United States. But that narrow viewpoint is the main problem.
We have evolved a political debate where essentially nationalistic concerns have
been hiding behind the gentler cloak of egalitarianism. To clear up this
confusion, one recommendation would be to preface all discussions of inequality
with a reminder that global inequality has been falling and that, in this
regard, the world is headed in a fundamentally better direction.

The message from groups like Occupy Wall Street has been that inequality is up
and that capitalism is failing us. A more correct and nuanced message is this:
Although significant economic problems remain, we have been living in equalizing
times for the world -- a change that has been largely for the good. That may not
make for convincing sloganeering, but it's the truth.

A common view is that high and rising inequality within nations brings political
trouble, maybe through violence or even revolution. So one might argue that a
nationalistic perspective is important. But it's hardly obvious that such
predictions of political turmoil are true, especially for aging societies like
the United States that are showing falling rates of crime.

Furthermore, public policy can adjust to accommodate some egalitarian concerns.
We can improve our educational system, for example.

Still, to the extent that political worry about rising domestic inequality is
justified, it suggests yet another reframing. If our domestic politics can't
handle changes in income distribution, maybe the problem isn't that capitalism
is fundamentally flawed but rather that our political institutions are
inflexible. Our politics need not collapse under the pressure of a world that,
over all, is becoming wealthier and fairer.

Many egalitarians push for policies to redistribute some income within nations,
including the United States. That's worth considering, but with a cautionary
note. Such initiatives will prove more beneficial on the global level if there
is more wealth to redistribute. In the United States, greater wealth would
maintain the nation's ability to invest abroad, buy foreign products, absorb
immigrants and generate innovation, with significant benefit for global income
and equality.

In other words, the true egalitarian should follow the economist's inclination
to seek wealth-maximizing policies, and that means worrying less about
inequality within the nation.

Yes, we might consider some useful revisions to current debates on inequality.
But globally minded egalitarians should be more optimistic about recent history,
realizing that capitalism and economic growth are continuing their historical
roles as the greatest and most effective equalizers the world has ever known.



                              
 Elevated Perspectives

 

''Archeo'' is this season's exhibition of artworks presented on the High Line,
the elevated railway turned greenway on the West Side of Manhattan that has
become a tourist magnet and emblem of gentrified New York. Shortening the word
''archaeology,'' the exhibition of outdoor sculpture by seven contemporary
artists focuses on technology and obsolescence. It also provides some connection
with the history and culture of the High Line, which, with its carefully
selected benches and botanicals, can otherwise feel like a detached people mover
carrying you through a bucolic landscape in the sky.

One of the most successful installations is Marianne Vitale's ''Common
Crossings,'' a lineup of five elongated sculptures installed near 24th Street.
The sculptures are made from the steel components of railroad switches known as
frogs. Ms. Vitale has rotated the frogs vertically, so that they look vaguely
anthropomorphic, or like totems.

Ms. Vitale's railroad components pointedly conjure the history of the High Line
itself, but sometimes in less obvious ways. The elevated tracks were built in
the 1920s and '30s because 10th Avenue, nicknamed Death Avenue, had been the
scene of a number of train accidents; the avenue had its own ''cowboys,'' waving
red flags to warn pedestrians. Ms. Vitale's repurposed rails feel in this
context like grave steles or memorials.

After the High Line fell out of service (its website says the last working
train, pulling three carloads of frozen turkeys, was in 1980), it became an
overgrown urban ruin. Jessica Jackson Hutchins's neo-hippie sculptures conjure
this moment, though it's unclear sometimes whether she's parodying or
celebrating the commodification of back-to-nature counterculture (probably a bit
of both). ''Fountain,'' near 14th Street, is a stack of found ceramics sitting
on an old seat cushion, nestled amid the greenery like a Japanese shrine. ''Him
and Me,'' just south of 26th Street, but below the walkway -- you must lean over
the railing to view it -- is a pile of ceramics balanced on a hand-woven hammock
that makes a kind of sly joke about leisure and display: Art rests while humans
trudge dutifully along.

Gavin Kenyon's sculpture a little north of 29th Street also uses some found
materials and, like Ms. Vitale's, nods at classic strains of modernism.
''Realism Marching Triumphantly Into the City'' (2014) is an abstract (not
traditionally realist) sculpture that recalls Constantin Brancusi's ''Princess
X'' (1915-16), an undeniably phallic sculpture that only partly escaped that
charge by claiming to be ''abstract.'' Mr. Kenyon, who also has work on view
right now at MoMA PS1 in Long Island City, Queens, extends the lineage of
biomorphic abstraction by blending Brancusi with a bit of Rodin, and adding some
kitsch elements, like fur.

Yngve Holen's and Isabelle Cornaro's sculptures are less enlivening. Mr. Holen's
installation at 20th Street is made with washing-machine drums burrowed in the
plants, a nature-and-consumer-culture juxtaposition that feels obvious and
familiar. Similarly, Ms. Cornaro's rectilinear steel columns at the south end of
the High Line look like restaurant decorations, with their cast-relief surfaces
of ropes and bricks. (The placard accompanying the sculptures claims a link to
16th-century wunderkammers, or cabinets of curiosity, but this reference seems
dubious.) Antoine Catala's ''breathing'' sculpture, a minimalist plinth with
bean-shaped, pneumatic membrane installed just north of 26th Street, is also too
subtle for this environment.

Across the bar from the Standard Hotel, Josh Kline takes the most activist
stance. Critics of the Bloomberg-era, tourist-friendly ''luxury'' New York have
cited the High Line as a prime indicator of uneven development. (The Arts &
Labor group of Occupy Wall Street staged its first action on the High Line.) Mr.
Kline's refrigerator filled with custom-made smoothies mimics the expensive
''health'' beverages found in delicatessens and gourmet markets. Ingredients
listed on the front of the beverage containers veer among the material,
political and poetic: ''tourism, starbucks, sunglasses, metrocard, hotel soap,
cupcake, cheesecake, cronut,'' and ''sick day, dayquil, redbull, ritalin,
claritin, aspirin, advil, aleve.''

High Line works not part of the ''Archeo'' show include a contemporary classic:
Peter Fischli and David Weiss's 1987 film ''The Way Things Go,'' screened every
evening at 7 near 14th Street. It features a linear Rube Goldberg contraption
that functions a bit like a booby-trapped High Line.

Mark Dion's ''A Field Guide and Handbook'' of the High Line (for ''Flâneurs,
Cosmopolitans & Bon Vivants''), modeling itself after an old-fashioned nature
pamphlet, tourist guide or etiquette manual, provides a smart, funny historical
''guide'' that mixes science and art, fact and fiction. You can buy it online or
at Printed Matter on 10th Avenue.

Ed Ruscha was commissioned this year to create a two-dimensional work on the
side of an apartment building on 22nd Street, visible on the High Line. The dark
pink mural, executed by a professional sign painter, isn't one of Mr. Ruscha's
best works. This one merely says, ''Honey, I Twisted Through More Damn Traffic
Today'' (a statement taken from one of his pastel drawings from the 1970s). It
also seems more fitting for Los Angeles; Mr. Ruscha is based there, and his work
is most associated with that city. And yet, after twisting through the
pedestrian traffic on this tourist confection, perhaps Mr. Ruscha, one of the
subtlest and canniest commentators on postwar culture in contemporary art, has
captured the ethos of the High Line.

''Archeo'' is on view through March on the High Line.



                              
 Generation Nice

 

Suddenly, as you may have noticed, millennials are everywhere. Not that this
group of people born after 1980 and before 2000 -- a giant cohort now estimated
to number at least 80 million Americans, more than the baby boom generation --
was ever invisible. What's changed is their status. Coddled and helicoptered,
catered to by 24-hour TV cable networks, fussed over by marketers and college
recruiters, dissected by psychologists, demographers and trend-spotters, the
millennial generation has come fully into its own. The word ''millennial,''
whether as noun or adjective, has monopolized the nonstop cultural conversation,
invariably freighted with zeitgeisty import.

This newspaper is no exception. A recent search of The New York Times database
turned up no fewer than 122 mentions of ''millennial'' so far in 2014, on topics
ranging from TV and pop music to travel and literature.

A random sampling:

1. ''Fusion was created in October as both a cable network and a digital network
aimed at a younger, so-called millennial audience and is committed to telling
and delivering the news in ways that a young audience expects.''

2. ''Lana Del Rey, the pouty, retro torch singer for the millennial generation.
...''

3. ''On the heels of hotels like Yotel and Aloft, a crop of new brands is
designed for millennial travelers.

4. ''Elyria is disengaged and depleted in a manner that put me in mind of the
characters in the novels of Tao Lin, that Zen summoner of millennial ennui.''

Why this microscopic attention paid to a generation whose oldest members are
only now entering the prime of their adult lives? One answer is that
millennials, the first people to come of age in the 21st century, with its
dizzying rate of technological change, have been forced to invent new ways of
navigating it.

But first, what besides youth sets millennials apart from their elders -- the
wizened silent generation, the graying boomers, the midlife Gen-X'ers?

The usual answer seems to be ''narcissism'' -- self-absorption indulged to
comical extremes. We all can recite the evidence: the breathlessly updated
Facebook profile, the cascade of selfies, the Kardashians.

Millennials know this litany, too. ''People have been calling me a narcissist
since I was 3,'' says Hannah, the character Lena Dunham plays in ''Girls,'' her
comedy of millennial manners. It's a small joke on Hannah but a bigger one on
the anxious, hovering adults who supplied the clucking soundtrack when she was
growing up.

But a very different picture of millennials emerges from what may be the most
illuminating literary project of our era, the Pew Research Center's sequence of
reports on millennials. The 2010 edition, subtitled ''Confident. Connected. Open
to Change,'' offered an X-ray of its first wave, the ''roughly 50 million
millennials who currently span the ages of 18 to 29.''

What Pew found was not an entitled generation but a complex and introspective
one -- with a far higher proportion of nonwhites than its predecessors as well
as a greater number of people raised by a single parent. Its members also have
weathered many large public traumas: the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, costly
(and unresolved) wars, the Great Recession. Add to those the flood of images of
Iraq and Katrina (and, for older millennials, Oklahoma City and Columbine) --
episodes lived and relived, played and replayed, on TV and computer screens.

For a generation digitally wired from childhood, and reared on apocalyptic
videos and computer-generated movie epics, not to mention the exploits of
hackers, these events showed the real world to be as tightly networked, and for
that reason as easily disrupted as the virtual one, even as the grown-ups in
charge, the guardians of order, seemed overwhelmed and overmatched, always a
step behind.

It is no surprise, as Pew reported, that the millennial generation is skeptical
of institutions -- political and religious -- and prefers to improvise solutions
to the challenges of the moment. It is one thing to own a smartphone, as so many
of us do. It is quite another to have mastered its uses at age 10.

Thus, in a range of areas, millennials have not only caught up, but have jumped
out in front.

Consider the approach many take to the workplace. Thanks to the 2008 economic
crash, millennials know how fleeting wealth can be. Their solution? For many, it
is to acquire not more, but less.

''Almost two-thirds (64 percent) of millennials said they would rather make
$40,000 a year at a job they love than $100,000 a year at a job they think is
boring,'' the Brookings Institution recently noted in a report by Morley
Winograd and Michael Hais titled ''How Millennials Could Upend Wall Street and
Corporate America.''

The generation that gave us Occupy Wall Street has embraced its own modes of
entrepreneurship, found across the broad spectrum of ''creatives,'' from
stylists to techies, who reject the presumed security of the corporate job and
riskily pursue their own ventures, even if it means working out of their
parents' basement.

Consider millennial shopping habits. Even in the realm of fashion, many are
indifferent to prestige brands and lavish ad campaigns, preferring to buy online
or get ''disposable'' clothing at H & M or Zara, which boasts that its
organically farmed cottons are ''completely free of pesticides, chemicals and
bleach.''

The do-goodish pitch is aimed squarely at millennials, who collectively favor
companies that embrace the values of good citizenship. The Brookings report says
millennials overwhelmingly ''responded with increased trust (91 percent) and
loyalty (89 percent), as well as a stronger likelihood to buy from those
companies that supported solutions to specific social issues (89 percent).''

And consider food. The new generation may have had health-consciousness drilled
into them at home or in school. But they have raised it to a new level. ''For
millennials, food isn't just food. It's community,'' The Washington Post
reported last year in an article on the Silver Diner chain, which has developed
an up-to-the-minute locavore menu and ''started actively catering to those on
vegan, vegetarian and gluten-free diets.''

It was a shrewd calculation. An estimated 12 percent of millennials say they are
''faithful vegetarians,'' compared with 4 percent of Gen X'ers and 1 percent of
baby boomers, according to one study.

Taken together, these habits and tastes look less like narcissism than
communalism. And its highest value isn't self-promotion, but its opposite,
empathy -- an open-minded and -hearted connection to others.

Exhibit A may be LeBron James, the N.B.A. superstar who in July announced that
he would be going back to rust-belt Cleveland after four glamorous years in
Miami, becoming, at age 29, one of America's wealthiest boomerang children.

''Miami, for me, has been almost like college for other kids,'' James explained
in a statement on SI.com exuding millennial earnestness. ''My relationship with
Northeast Ohio is bigger than basketball. I didn't realize that four years ago.
I do now.''

Four years ago, he meant, when he seemed the picture of self-importance,
proclaiming on a live ESPN spectacle that he would ''take my talents to South
Beach.''

But James didn't develop his new vocabulary of civic obligation and social
responsibility overnight. On the contrary, he was a model teammate in Miami,
insistently deflecting praise to others. He also helped lead the campaign to
hold the former Los Angeles Clippers owner Donald Sterling accountable for
racially charged blurtings when they became public last spring.

Tellingly, James reacted forcefully on Twitter. In common with other
millennials, he has made social media, with its many opportunities for
''oversharing'' self-display, a means of communication that pushes outward,
instead of turning inward.

And he is not alone. We all know about celebrity-stalking websites like Gawker
and TMZ, and the harm they wantonly inflict. But the millennial Brandon Stanton,
a 30-year-old former bond trader and self-taught camera portraitist, has created
a counterexample in ''Humans of New York,'' his popular photo blog.

Combing streets and parks, Mr. Stanton takes pictures of ordinary people and
interviews them about their lives. The resulting images and excerpts give
dignity to what might otherwise be forgotten faces in the urban crowd. Published
in book form, ''Humans of New York'' became a No. 1 best seller last fall.

A similar theme illuminates the writings of Leslie Jamison, a 31-year-old Yale
graduate student who has emerged as an accomplished essayist in her acclaimed
book ''The Empathy Exams.'' On the surface, Ms. Jamison's confessional writings
look like exhibitionism -- including the title essay, which records her time as
a ''medical actor'' enacting a script of symptoms for the benefit of medical
students.

Yet she has been deluged with mail from grateful readers, who have poured forth
their own, often harrowing experiences. ''I found myself becoming an unwitting
confessor to countless strangers,'' Ms. Jamison wrote last month in The
Guardian. ''I started to feel like confession could be the opposite of
solipsism.''

On book tour, Ms. Jamison clinched the bond. ''Whenever someone asked me to sign
her book, I would ask her to sign mine,'' she wrote. ''It was a way to create,
for a moment, the kind of symmetry that felt impossible in the letters I
received.''

Empathy was a theme sounded repeatedly by some of the millennials photographed
for this article, and interviewed in an online slide show that accompanies it.

One said he hoped to succeed because ''the better you're doing, the more you can
share with other people.'' Another pointed out that while he was nursed on the
traditional American dream -- ''this idea that if you worked hard and got good
grades and did all the right stuff you would succeed'' -- he has developed a
more pragmatic version of it suited to the economic realities of the 21st
century.

''I know that as hard as I work -- and I work very hard -- I very well may fail.
And it's liberating to know that.'' The key word is ''liberating.'' In the age
of the start-up, of fortunes gained and lost overnight, of flawed ideas in need
of continual debugging and re-tweaking, failure is the default outcome and also,
at times, the ground zero of eventual triumph.

No wonder, then, that ''millennials are the nation's most dogged optimists,'' as
Pew reported in a new study this spring. ''They believe their own best days are
ahead.''

They, and we, can expect some less-than-best days, too. Cultural transformations
are seldom cost-free. And they're not always permanent. A new generation, as yet
unnamed, is growing up in the world the millennials have made and may already be
working on its own revision of the nation's moral life.



                              
 The Resistance Would Weep

 

PARIS -- We live in strange times. After celebrating the 70th anniversary of
D-Day, the Allied landings in Normandy in 1944, France is about to commemorate
the 70th anniversary of the liberation of Paris two and a half months later by
the combined forces of the French Resistance and Gen. Philippe Leclerc's Free
French Army. Yet these celebrations come just as France's voters have been
handing victories to a party created in 1972 by ideological heirs to the Vichy
regime, the French puppet government that collaborated with the Nazis and fought
the Resistance from 1940 to 1944.

Strange days indeed. In May, voters awarded the National Front, a far-right,
immigrant-fearing, anti-European Union party, first place with a quarter of all
votes cast to represent France in the European Parliament. Two months before,
voters had chosen it to run 11 French municipalities. Back in 1974, by
comparison, the party's founder, Jean-Marie Le Pen, mustered only 0.75 percent
of the vote for president of France.

Of course, French resistance under Vichy never quite fit the morally pure image
-- a country united in opposition to German occupation -- that was superimposed
on history after the Liberation by a tacit agreement between Gaullists and
Communists, the two main French forces who had fought the Nazis. Indeed, in July
1940 the National Assembly voted overwhelmingly to establish the Vichy
government in what would become unoccupied southern France.

Nevertheless, in the summer of 1944 French opinion rallied in massive numbers to
the victors' banner: There were colossally more Resistance fighters than when
Gen. Charles de Gaulle first sent out his call in 1940. They produced the
uprising that broke out in Paris on Aug. 19 and brought the German garrison to
surrender six days later, as the rapidly advancing Allied armies arrived in
Paris in force with Free French infantry and tanks in the lead.

For decades in France, that Resistance victory -- the universalist spirit of
progress and the Enlightenment triumphing over the herd-like, xenophobic spirit
of Vichy -- put everyone who had collaborated with Nazism outside the legitimate
political and moral field. And even though the Resistance was far less united
than had been imagined during the war, it had been united enough to reach
agreement in March 1944 on a farsighted program of national reconstruction as
the principal war aim.

This program, unanimously adopted by the leaders of the National Council of the
Resistance (C.N.R. in French) -- Gaullists, Communists, socialists, Christian
democrats and even conservatives -- became the inspiration for a French New Deal
of sorts; a dynamic state with a generous social policy that framed the
reconstruction of France's economy in what is known as ''the 30 glorious years''
of growth.

By the 1980s, the French had absorbed what the French call their ''social
victories'' -- the two best known are universal health care and a fair pension
system -- and retrenchment began slowly eating away at them.

Now, however, two more recent incidents have revived this program of the
Resistance as an issue.

In 2007, Denis Kessler, a prominent French entrepreneur, called for reforming
the French economy by ''completely undoing the C.N.R.'s program'' and bringing
down the welfare state. In response in 2010, the diplomat Stéphane Hessel, who
had fought for the Resistance and survived deportation to Buchenwald, published
a short book, ''Time for Outrage!'' It called for a return to the founding
values of the postwar program, starting with social justice and opportunities
for the underprivileged, including immigrants. His tract sold more than four
million copies, inspired protests by sympathizers across Europe and influenced
some elements of Occupy Wall Street.

Nevertheless, the program of the Resistance had been repeatedly cut back for 30
years, and this steady disintegration of the ''French social model'' does a
great deal to explain the current rise of the National Front and the disturbing
resurgence of xenophobia and herd mentality.

The putative heirs to the Resistance, who have run the country for 70 years now
whether as socialists or conservatives, have proved unable to halt this
disintegration. And it is especially difficult for them now. The Socialist
Party, which holds power, no longer has any identifiable politics, not even
reformist. The radical left is too incoherent and divided to take the slightest
electoral advantage of its hostility toward President François Hollande. The
Communists have almost entirely vanished from the scene. And the Union for a
Popular Movement, which unites Gaullists and conservatives, was turned into a
megaphone for triumphant free-market capitalism when Nicolas Sarkozy was
president. Ever since, its factions have been mired in financial scandal, strong
ideological and personal divisions, or fury at Mr. Sarkozy.

Mr. Hessel's call to revive the ''spirit of the Resistance'' was somewhat
artificial, given that French society has changed dramatically in 70 years. But
it remains significant as a vision and example -- a remembrance of a time of
collective action, openness to others, creative and dynamic leadership, and
confidence in the future. All these qualities are cruelly lacking in France
today. Their absence opens the way for all the fears that dominate French
society, and for all the retreats and retrenchments.

In 2011, Marine Le Pen succeeded her father as head of the National Front. Her
father was a racist demagogue who spent his life in Vichyist circles. Now she is
the only rising figure on France's political horizon, and she tries to prune
away the most repellent aspects of her party's past. She sticks to a public
platform that is less provocative and more centered on actual issues.

But in reality, Marine Le Pen remains firmly in line with the party's history.
The National Front's first program, in 1973, was called ''Defending the
French''; it stood against immigrants, minorities, Communists and anyone
''anti-French.'' Today, its most rousing slogan invokes ''national preference'';
among other things, this entails refusing foreign employees access to the social
protections French employees get. This may be milder language than her father's,
but the idea still repels the left and Gaullists alike. Marine Le Pen also
champions isolationism toward Europe, and hostility toward immigrants and
minorities, especially Muslims. In short, she and her party still embody the
precise opposite of the ''spirit of the Liberation'' that prevailed 70 years
ago.

This week, even as anti-immigrant sentiment spreads among us daily, we French
should remember that many of the first unit of Free French infantrymen to enter
Paris and liberate the city on Aug. 24, 1944, were foreigners -- the 9th Company
of the 2nd Armored Division, nicknamed in Spanish ''La Nueve'' (''The Ninth'').
In Spanish, because among its 160 men, 146 were former members of the Spanish
left who had fled General Francisco Franco's fascist regime to continue, in
France, the fight against Nazism and its collaborators.

Sylvain Cypel, a former correspondent for Le Monde, is the author of ''Walled:
Israeli Society at an Impasse.'' This essay was translated by Edward Gauvin from
the French.



                              
 In Russia, Scenes From Ferguson Are Played as Nothing Shocking: It's
America

 

MOSCOW -- At least once an hour, sometimes more frequently, images of battalions
of riot police officers in helmets clashing with demonstrators fill the screen
of Rossiya 24, one of Russia's major government-controlled television channels,
and newscasters speaking in grave tones inveigh against the injustice and
violence by the authorities.

The images are not from Kiev, Ukraine, or from here in Moscow, where such scenes
have been more than familiar in recent years. They are from Ferguson, Mo., where
the shooting death of Michael Brown and the crackdown by the authorities against
protesters have provided the latest opportunity for Russia to portray its
detractors in America as hypocrites.

''Cases of racism are still not rare in the nation of exemplary democracy,'' an
anchor on Rossiya 24 said on Tuesday, as Ferguson again grabbed a prominent
place in the evening news cycle.

In Russia's more tabloid-style news outlets, close coverage of the events in
Missouri, including such details as the rap star Nelly's appearing in support of
the demonstrators, has overshadowed the other big story in recent days: that of
a high school music teacher under pressure to resign after she inadvertently
posted a naked selfie on VKontakte, the Russian social media site.

The Russian government itself weighed in on Tuesday. In a long statement,
Konstantin Dolgov, the Foreign Ministry's special representative for human
rights, baldly accused the United States of hypocrisy, and said Washington would
do better to focus on its own problems rather than intervening in other
countries ''under the false pretext of defending democracy and human rights.''

''While urging other countries to guarantee the freedom of speech and not to
suppress antigovernment protests, the United States authorities at home are not
too soft with those actively expressing discontent over persistent inequalities,
actual discrimination and the situation of 'second class' citizens,'' Mr. Dolgov
said.

He added, ''American human rights activists are sounding the alarm.''

Over the years, Washington has persistently condemned the Kremlin's suppression
of political dissent. The United States was sharply critical, for example, when
scuffles between the police and huge crowds denouncing President Vladimir V.
Putin in 2012 led to dozens of arrests. Criminal trials in some of those cases
are still in the news here.

That has given Russia ample motive to gloat whenever accusations arise of
heavy-handedness by American law enforcement in the face of public protests.

More recently, of course, the United States -- to the Kremlin's great dismay --
sided strongly in favor of street protesters in Kiev, who this year succeeded in
ousting Ukraine's president, Viktor F. Yanukovych. An assistant secretary of
state, Victoria Nuland, had visited with the demonstrators in Independence
Square and handed out cookies. Several United States officials, including
Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, also visited Kiev to show solidarity
and even addressed the crowd from the stage.

The focus on the Ferguson situation is hardly a surprise.

Russia paid similarly close attention, for instance, when demonstrators from the
Occupy Wall Street movement were arrested in New York in 2011, and
government-controlled news media outlets have often rebroadcast video of those
arrests to make the same point as their coverage of Ferguson: The freedom of
assembly enshrined in the Bill of Rights is not as absolute as promoters of
American democracy might suggest.

It is not only harsh treatment of protesters that draws Russia's disapproving
eye. Gun crimes, such as school shootings, which are relatively rare in Russia,
also get heavy publicity when they occur in the United States.

The police response in Missouri -- and Russia's official smirking -- has caused
deep consternation among critics of the Kremlin here. They see it as being
exploited to excuse Russia's much more pervasive and deep-rooted restrictions on
civil liberties, as well as its often arbitrary -- and Kremlin-dominated -- law
enforcement and judicial systems.

Maria Baronova, who was arrested at one of the white-ribbon protests against Mr.
Putin, posted a photo on Twitter on Tuesday of heavily armed St. Louis County
police officers in helmets. Ms. Baronova had faced near-certain conviction on
charges of inciting a riot, and she avoided a lengthy prison term only because
she qualified for an amnesty program ahead of the Sochi Winter Olympics.

''Dear American gvrnmnt,'' she wrote alongside the photograph on Twitter. ''You
can't imagine how those who fight for freedom in Russia hate you these days.
Putin saw this.''

One headline over an opinion feature in the newspaper MK this week asked,
''Could Ferguson become a second Donetsk?'' The reference was to the
rebel-controlled city in eastern Ukraine, which was been ravaged by separatist
violence. In the article, an expert contributor helpfully reassured that civil
war was not imminent in the United States.

Coverage of the protests in Ferguson on LifeNews, a site close to the Russian
authorities, included a picture of the police arresting Hedy Epstein, who the
site noted is a 90-year-old Holocaust survivor. It also reported the arrest of
Scott Olson, a photographer for Getty Images, ''who tried to take pictures of
the policemen.'' The site added, ''He was soon released.''



                              
 Drawing Words From the Well of Art

 

On a recent afternoon at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, two standard poodles
could be found lounging among the Monets. No one was looking at the water
lilies; everyone was photographing the animals (allowed there as medical-alert
dogs), particularly the white one, which had fine braids woven into its hair.

Ben Lerner, the poet turned novelist, was at the Met to visit the painting at
the heart of his new novel, ''10:04,'' to be published on Sept. 2 by Faber &
Faber. He can't stay away from museums. Crucial scenes in his books are set at
the Met, the Prado, the Picasso Museum in Barcelona.

''They're these huge laboratories for all the different contradictory notions of
what art is,'' he said. Or, he added in the wry, lightly despairing voice of his
fiction, ''a place to show off your poodles.''

The painting Mr. Lerner, 35, had come to see is Jules Bastien-Lepage's ''Joan of
Arc,'' which depicts Joan swooning as she hears the call to battle. It's
something of a famous failure, but Mr. Lerner loves its flaws: ''I like
paintings that depict what paintings can't depict, like hearing voices.'' He
said that the ''glitches in the pictorial matrix'' in this otherwise
naturalistic painting -- the cartoonish angels, the way Joan's left hand
dissolves into the paint -- inspired his new novel's questions about how artists
render phenomena that seem impossible to describe: the passage of time, the
texture of consciousness.

''What interests me about fiction,'' he said, ''is, in part, its flickering edge
between realism and where a tear in the fabric of a story lets in some other
sort of light.''

Mr. Lerner's first novel, ''Leaving the Atocha Station,'' received an
enthusiastic reception when it was published in 2011. It won a Believer Book
Award and was named a best book of the year by The New Yorker, The Guardian and
New York magazine. The writer Geoff Dyer declared it ''so luminously original in
style and form as to seem like a premonition, a comet from the future.''

The book has little in the way of conventional plot: An American poet in Madrid
(where Mr. Lerner was a Fulbright fellow), addled by ''porn and privilege,''
wanders around, halfheartedly pursuing women, telling increasingly elaborate
lies, pickling in his self-loathing. The style was the real story: a palimpsest
of poems, prose, G-chats, essays and photographs that invoke the slacker novel,
the expat novel, the manic monologues of Thomas Bernhard -- infused with a sly
stoner charm.

'' 'Atocha' is ''full of formal innovations,'' Lorin Stein, the editor of The
Paris Review and an early champion of the novel, wrote in an email, ''the way it
captures contemporary speech and thought and so on, but in a funny way, you take
that stuff for granted. It's not like someone using different colored inks or
doodling in the margins -- being 'original.' It's more like you wonder how other
novels got along without noticing those things.''

''10:04'' picks up where the first book leaves off. The unnamed poet narrator
has recently received ''an alarming amount of critical acclaim'' and is facing,
to his bewilderment, a possible ''strong six-figure'' deal with a major
publisher.

In one of the more frank discussions of publishing in American fiction, his
agent assures him that the novel doesn't have to -- and probably won't -- sell
well. (''Presses wanted a potential darling of the critics,'' she explains, to
help ''maintain the reputation of the house, even if most of their money was
being made by teen vampire sagas.'')

Around this strand, others twine: The narrator decides to donate sperm so his
best friend can have a child; he learns he may have a rare genetic disease; an
older friend falls gravely ill; the city braces for Hurricane Sandy; and he
starts to write what we understand will become this book.

Much of the story seems spun from the author's life. Mr. Lerner recently became
a father, and he's shared the narrator's career trajectory, moving from Coffee
House Press, an independent publisher, to a bigger house for his second book
(although he said the novel exaggerated his advance). He said he had been
insulated from any pressure by being in a ''strangely marginal'' relationship
with fiction.

''I don't know many novelists,'' he said. ''My big concern was that an editor
would say you need a happy ending, you need a louder plot or that there would
somehow be this desire to make me a more palatable writer. But they totally left
me alone.''

If Mr. Lerner's first novel was about the American abroad and estranged, this
new one is very much about community and what it might mean going forward. The
narrator hangs around Zuccotti Park during the Occupy Wall Street movement and
does grudging diligence at his shift at the Park Slope Food Co-op.

The story line about having a child, Mr. Lerner said, is just one more way of
imagining the future. ''Fiction isn't an escape into an imaginary world,'' he
said. ''It's about little redescriptions of the world that we exist in; it's the
power to imagine different futures.''

It was this sort of earnestness that spoke to Chris Fischbach, the publisher of
Coffee House Press. ''Ben and I are of the same generation, steeped in and adept
at irony,'' he said in an email. '' 'Atocha' broke through that ironic posturing
more than any other contemporary novel I'd come across.''

That wariness of irony owes something, perhaps, to the story of Mr. Lerner's
hometown, Topeka, Kan. The son of two psychologists (his mother, Harriet Lerner,
is the author of the self-help classic ''The Dance of Anger''), he saw Topeka
scarred by violence.

''Suburban-white-kid crime, Columbine High School sort of thing,'' he said. ''A
violence of numbness and identitylessness.''

Mr. Lerner started writing poetry seriously in high school and later earned his
M.F.A. at Brown, where he was a co-founder of the literary magazine No: A
Journal of the Arts. His second collection, ''Angle of Yaw,'' was a finalist for
the National Book Award. Throughout, his poetry and fiction have evinced a
remarkably consistent set of obsessions. Take this line from ''Angle of Yaw'':
''When we found eyes in the hospital Dumpster, we decided to build the most
awesome snowman ever.'' It's all there -- the fascination with the art object,
with authenticity and artifice, with looking.

At the Met, Mr. Lerner stood before ''Joan of Arc'' so long and talked about it
with such intensity that, in the peculiar way of museums, other people became
gradually persuaded of its importance. A small crowd gathered. A nun pulled out
an expensive-looking camera.

''That's one of the things I really love about painting,'' Mr. Lerner said,
''the implied history of other people's looking. I imagine all these very
different people who have stood before a painting, people who, of course, I
don't know. Generations I don't know. Which is in the novel a lot, that what's
interesting about a picture or a book is the community of viewers.''



                              
 'For the Common Good of Humankind'

 

THE INTELLECTUAL LIFE OF EDMUND BURKEFrom the Sublime and Beautiful to American
Independence

By David Bromwich500 pp. The Belknap Press/Harvard University Press. $39.95.

Edmund Burke is enjoying a remarkable revival for a British statesman who has
been dead since 1797. The last 18 months or so have brought books by Jesse
Norman, Yuval Levin and Drew Maciag -- a member of Parliament and two American
scholars -- placing him in the context of political traditions that endure to
this day. Their subtitles tell the story: Burke is ''The First Conservative''
(Norman) or ''The Father of Modern Conservatism'' (Maciag) or present at ''The
Birth of Right and Left'' (Levin).

In ''The Intellectual Life of Edmund Burke: From the Sublime and Beautiful to
American Independence,'' David Bromwich explores another facet of this complex
thinker: ''I write about Burke as a moral psychologist.'' Bromwich, a Sterling
professor of English at Yale, gives us a figure who may be unknown to readers
familiar with Burke only from ''Reflections on the Revolution in France'' or his
reputation as modern conservatism's founding father.

Bromwich's Burke is one for whom ''ordinary feelings such as trust, though they
have a Christian correlative, themselves supply a sufficient groundwork of moral
conduct.'' Burke is moved more by a universal sympathy for human struggle than
by religion or patriotism. ''I certainly have very warm good wishes for the
place of my birth,'' he tells his parliamentary constituents in a 1780
re-election speech, ''but the sphere of my duties is my true country.''

These words, Bromwich says, ''refute all assertions that Burke was a
communitarian who especially favored local or national loyalties.'' Indeed,
Bromwich goes so far as to say Burke ''meant that Britain mattered to him only
as it served the common good of humankind.'' The claim is bold, but it comes
late in the book, after Bromwich has carefully led readers through Burke's
thought.

This is no conventional biography, though Bromwich provides the necessary
background: Burke is born in Dublin in 1730 to a Catholic mother and a father
who belongs to the king's church. After an education at a Quaker school and then
Trinity College, he embarks on a literary career whose first issue is ''A
Vindication of Natural Society,'' an anonymous pamphlet satirically applying to
politics the reasoning behind Viscount Bolingbroke's critique of organized
religion. A 1757 essay under Burke's name, ''A Philosophical Enquiry Into the
Origin of Our Ideas of the Sublime and Beautiful,'' becomes a classic of modern
aesthetics.

Ideas, rather than personal events, are Bromwich's focus, and Burke's ideas
begin to merge with British politics in 1765, when he becomes secretary to the
Marquis of Rockingham, leader of a faction of Whigs in opposition to George
III's government, and Burke is himself elected to Parliament that December.

Three great controversies mark Burke's time in the House of Commons over the
period this book covers. (A subsequent volume will consider Burke's thoughts in
the late 1780s and 1790s.) First there is the matter of John Wilkes, ''the
master libertarian and demagogue,'' as Bromwich says, whose challenges to the
king's government result in expansions of free speech and civil liberties. Next
comes the American Revolution, which Burke at first hopes to avert by urging
''salutary neglect'' of Parliament's claims upon the colonies; when that fails,
he prefers American independence to liberties lost on both sides of the Atlantic
in a ''civil war.'' (As Bromwich writes, ''from 1774 to 1790, Burke was not only
a consistent critic of state violence, he was an antiwar writer through and
through.'') Finally there are the English popular movements of the late 1770s
that press for greater participation in power -- and, perversely, greater
restrictions on Catholics' civil liberties.

These constitutional struggles illuminate Bromwich's portrait of a Burke whose
''sympathy knew no bounds of race or nation.'' He paid a price for his humanity
-- Burke's support for free trade with Ireland and civil rights for Catholics
there and in England cost him support among his constituents in Bristol, leading
him to forfeit his seat in 1780. (He soon found another through Rockingham's
patronage.) Bromwich recounts several less-known examples of Burke's compassion
as well -- his sketch of a ''Negro Code'' to restrict slavery, for one, and his
intervention on behalf of men convicted of ''sodomitical practices'' and
sentenced to the pillory, where they could be assaulted and killed by enraged
mobs.

Bromwich quotes Burke at length and closely examines his words. Though his
attention throughout is on Burke's moral psychology, Bromwich also highlights
the literary character of his thought, including his debts to Milton and
Shakespeare. This is not a comparative study of Burke and other authors,
however. Bromwich devotes a few paragraphs to contrasting the politics of Burke
and Samuel Johnson, but readers must look elsewhere for a broad consideration of
Burke's ideas in light of such contemporaries as Adam Smith, David Hume and
Jean-Jacques Rousseau, who appear only fleetingly in these pages.

This is not a failure on Bromwich's part. Rather, it's an indication of just how
tightly he keeps his eyes on Burke's texts and their meaning for Burke himself.

The Edmund Burke who could reply to the anti-Catholic demagogue Lord George
Gordon -- ''The only religion I profess is that of universal humanity and
benevolence'' -- may sound like a man of modern, progressive sensibilities. But
Bromwich also shows a side of Burke that will seem alien to most readers.
However humanitarian Burke may have been, he was deeply skeptical of mass
democracy and preferred that government be carried on by gentlemen and noblemen.
He was a Whig.

His first great political essay, ''Thoughts on the Cause of the Present
Discontents,'' was a defense of ''party'' against centralized power and a sharp
critique of consensus or independence as political ideals: Consensus really
meant doing whatever those in power demanded, while to be independent of a party
was to eschew the organization necessary to counteract power. A party, by
contrast, brought together persons of shared principles not only to pool their
resources to resist encroachments on liberty but also to provide example and
instruction to one another -- and to check one another's intellectual
deviations.

Bromwich ably describes the 18th-century milieu in which Burke makes this
argument, but he does not emphasize enough how this idea of party differs from
what we know by that name today. A party like the Rockingham Whigs was a
''connection'' of political friendship among an elite -- and Burke was leery of
the kind of partisan groupings we see now. Burke trusted an elite, one with a
significant hereditary component, to govern in the best interests of all.

But he was no mere apologist for aristocracy, and Bromwich very effectively
shows what role Burke did envision for democracy within the British
constitution. It was an almost exclusively negative one -- the people were not
meant to govern, but they were surely the best judges of their own feelings,
including feelings of oppression. And while Burke believed those feelings must
ultimately be channeled through Parliament, he allowed an important role for
public protest to check government's tendency to serve itself rather than the
people.

In Burke's politics there was room alike for elite rule and street
demonstrations of the Tea Party or Occupy Wall Street variety. This balance of
familiar and strange, Burke's enlightened humanity and his intricate
understanding of power, make him well deserving of the extensive treatment he
has lately received -- and especially of the justice David Bromwich has rendered
him in showing Edmund Burke in the most unexpected of lights.



                              
 The Odds and Ends of New York

 

From a human perspective, there's no such thing as an objective object. Anything
that comes to a person's attention -- a rock, a tree, a dog, a painting, another
person -- will evoke ideas, feelings, memories and fantasies. Every object tells
a story.

Depending on where you live, some objects speak more resonantly than others. If
New York City is or ever was your home, you'll find numerous such eloquent items
in ''A Brief History of New York: Selections from 'A History of New York in 101
Objects,' '' a small jewel box of an exhibition at the New-York Historical
Society.

Illuminated behind glass walls in an otherwise darkened, oblong room the size of
a billionaire's walk-in closet, the exhibition presents an intriguingly eclectic
collection. Many things are the sorts you'd expect to find in a history museum:
an arrowhead representing the region's pre-colonial inhabitants; a short section
of the trans-Atlantic cable that enabled telegraph communication between the New
World and the Old, beginning in 1858; a check for $100,000 made out to the
robber baron James Fisk Jr. by Boss Tweed, the leader of New York's corrupt
mid-19th-century political machine.

On the other hand, there are things that, while familiar, you might not
ordinarily think of as historically significant, like the pink high-bounce
rubber ball called the Spaldeen -- New York-ese for Spalding, its manufacturer
-- and the Anthora, the blue-and-white cardboard coffee cup whose graphics evoke
the aesthetics of Ancient Greece.

If this sounds idiosyncratic, it is. The exhibition's 30 objects were picked
from the museum's permanent collection by Sam Roberts, an urban affairs
correspondent for The New York Times. They are featured, along with 71 other
items, in his new book, ''A History of New York in 101 Objects'' (Simon &
Schuster), which is to be released this month.

If 101 seems a rather small number to sum up the history of so vast a
metropolis, just 30 might seem even less plausible. Yet, with the help of
illuminating descriptive labels lifted from Mr. Roberts's book, those here
cumulatively bring to mind a panoramic vista that's as entertaining as it is
edifying.

Consider the oyster, represented by a single gnarly shell. Now a pricey
delicacy, in the 1600s and 1700s, this lowly bivalve inhabited New York harbor
in such great quantities that it was, the label says, ''a staple of virtually
every New Yorker's diet.''

Among the less visible miracles of New York is its water supply system. The
first efforts to widely circulate water had pipes made of hollowed-out tree
trunks. The exhibition presents a slice of an old log with a hole in its center
from that system, which was started in 1799 by Aaron Burr, using some of the
money he amassed in creating the Bank of the Manhattan Company -- now JP Morgan
Chase. Wooden pipes turned out not to be a good idea, however, as they caused
several cholera epidemics.

A more auspicious start to another great system is represented by a ceremonial
Tiffany silver and ebony throttle handle, which Mayor George B. McClellan Jr.
used to drive New York's first subway train from City Hall to West 103rd Street
on Oct. 27, 1904. A related but more humble object from later in the century is
the subway token, which was introduced in 1953, when the fare rose to 15 cents
from 10 and the turnstiles couldn't accept both dimes and nickels. They lasted
until 2003, when MetroCards became the exclusive means of entry.

Political turbulence is naturally a theme. There's a football-size piece of lead
from an equestrian statue of King George that was toppled and hacked to pieces
by an anti-British mob on July 9, 1776.

A draft wheel from 1863, a wooden tumbler that was filled with the names of men
eligible for military service, memorializes an especially terrible event in New
York history. The first draft lottery, on July 11, 1863, precipitated protest
riots that left at least 103 people dead and hundreds more wounded.

A door covered with graffiti from the 1970s evokes a decade when New York
teetered on the brink of bankruptcy. In 1975, The Daily News characterized
President Gerald Ford's refusal to help with the famous headline ''Ford to City:
Drop Dead.'' It's shown here as a photographic reproduction.

On the cultural front, there's a copy of the catalog of the 1913 Armory Show,
which introduced European avant-garde art to the United States. One of the
world's greatest art museums is neatly represented by the metal tag used until
last year to identify paying visitors to the Metropolitan Museum of Art.

The exhibition's last two items bring the show to a somber close with symbols of
death and destruction. One is a strip of AIDS awareness stickers produced by the
organization Act Up, with the slogan ''Silence = Death'' in white under a pink
triangle on a black circle. The other is a jar containing dust gathered from
near the World Trade Center shortly after the Sept. 11 attacks.

Leaving the exhibition, you might ask yourself what objects you would pick to
symbolize New York of the post-Sept. 11 era. I'd propose a picture of the Wall
Street Bull under police protection to represent the Occupy Wall Street movement
and the politics of money that have roiled the city for the past four centuries.

''A Brief History of New York: Selections From 'A History of New York in 101
Objects,' '' runs through Nov. 30 at the New-York Historical Society, 170
Central Park West, at 77th Street; 212-873-3400, nyhistory.org.



                              
 Paperback Row

 

BLEEDING EDGE, by Thomas Pynchon. (Penguin, $17.) The horror of Sept. 11 looms
over Pynchon's novel of New York in the vortex of the dot-com boom. When Maxine
Tarnow, a fraud investigator pinballing between work and family, starts looking
into a computer-security firm and its corrupt chief executive, she finds herself
mixed up with an array of hackers, drug runners and entrepreneurs, some of whom
begin turning up dead. Our reviewer, Jonathan Lethem, called this shaggy-dog
conspiracy tale ''dazzling and ludicrous.''

THE HEIR APPARENT: A Life of Edward VII, the Playboy Prince, by Jane Ridley.
(Random House, $20.) Born Prince Albert Edward, and known as Bertie to
familiars, King Edward VII (1841-1910) was vain, gluttonous, promiscuous and
none too bright, but he emerges as an appealing character -- with a surprising
affinity for kingship -- in Ridley's fine book, the fruit of a decade's
immersion in the royal archives.

THE OCEAN AT THE END OF THE LANE, by Neil Gaiman. (Morrow/HarperCollins,
$14.99.) In this slim, unsettling dream of a novel, a middle-aged narrator looks
back on his lonely, frightened boyhood in Sussex, England, and his encounters
with the supernatural alongside Lettie Hempstock, ''a most remarkable girl.''
Gaiman's ''mind is a dark fathomless ocean,'' Benjamin Percy said in the Book
Review.

THE AMERICAN WAY OF POVERTY: How the Other Half Still Lives, by Sasha Abramsky.
(Nation Books, $16.99.) Seeing itself as an heir to Michael Harrington's ''The
Other America'' (1962), this study reaches across a range of issues --
education, housing, criminal justice -- to present a sweeping panorama of
poverty's elements. Abramsky also proposes a host of remedies, chiefly by
government as the great mobilizer of financial resources.

FOOLS, by Joan Silber. (Norton, $14.95.) From New York to India to Paris, from
the Catholic Worker movement to Occupy Wall Street, Silber's linked stories
weave in historical figures while exploring the lives of people willing to risk
something for their ideals. ''Structurally, the intricacy is skillful;
emotionally, it's astounding,'' Natalie Bakopoulos wrote here.

DARLING: A Spiritual Autobiography, by Richard Rodriguez. (Penguin, $16.) In
''Hunger of Memory,'' the 1982 book that made him one of his generation's most
prominent essayists, Rodriguez wrote: ''I wanted to forget that I had a body
because I had a brown body.'' The soul-searching essays here claim this body in
all its difficulties as Rodriguez -- Hispanic, Roman Catholic, gay -- tries to
reconcile faith and spirituality with personal and public tragedy.

BURIAL RITES, by Hannah Kent. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $15.) In Iceland in 1828,
a servant named Agnes Magnusdottir was convicted of murdering two men and
removed to her homeland's farthest reaches, to a farm in northern Iceland, to
await execution. Kent's atmospheric first novel reimagines the story of this
doomed woman, the farming family compelled to be her death-row custodians, and
the hesitant clergyman dispatched to the farm to act as Agnes's spiritual guide.



                              
 JPMorgan's Settlement Over Trading Loss

 

JPMORGAN CHASE IS SAID TO ADMIT FAULT IN SETTLEMENT  |  JPMorgan Chase has
agreed to pay about $800 million to government agencies in Washington and
London, and to make a groundbreaking admission of wrongdoing, to resolve
allegations stemming from its London Whale trading loss last year, Ben Protess
and Jessica Silver-Greenberg report in DealBook. The settlements, expected this
week, will help the bank move beyond the $6 billion loss and mend frayed
relationships with regulators. In a victory for the bank, senior JPMorgan
executives avoided charges in the case.

An admission of wrongdoing would be a rare stain on JPMorgan's reputation and
could expose the bank to private litigation. The bank will acknowledge that it
should have caught the problem faster, people briefed on the matter tell
DealBook. The deal, reflecting a somewhat tougher line taken by the Securities
and Exchange Commission, will also require the bank to admit that its lax
controls allowed traders in a unit in London to build the risky position and
cover up their losses, DealBook writes.

But at least one regulator is not on board. The Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, which oversees the market in which the losses occurred, has balked
at joining the settlement and plans to fine the bank later this year, the people
briefed on the matter said. Splitting from fellow regulators, the agency has
examined whether JPMorgan amassed a position so large that it "manipulated" the
market for derivatives.

PERELMAN'S DAUGHTER IN LEGAL BRAWL  |  Samantha Perelman, a 23-year-old student
at Columbia University who will be at the center of a nasty family battle in a
New Jersey courtroom this week, is a legal novice. But her father, Ronald O.
Perelman, the 70-year-old financier and chairman of the cosmetics company
Revlon, has never shied away from a court fight, having sued companies, ex-wives
and a former business partner, DealBook's Susanne Craig reports.

In this case, Mr. Perelman is picking up the tab for his daughter's legal fight
with her uncle, James Cohen, the head of Hudson Media. Mr. Cohen is a longtime
legal opponent of Mr. Perelman, who has previously contended that Mr. Cohen
siphoned hundreds of millions of dollars out of Samantha's inheritance from her
mother. Now, Ms. Perelman's legal brawl with her uncle has conservatively cost
at least $60 million in legal bills so far, according to lawyers on both sides.

"What he did was greedy and not nice," said Ms. Perelman in a videoconference
interview from her father's yacht off the shore of Greece. She added that
despite her father's wealth her mother always wanted her to be provided for
separately and she would be "incredibly heartbroken and angry to know her
brother deceived her."

GUESSING CONTINUES IN FED RACE  |  An intriguing question was swirling around
Washington on Monday only hours after Lawrence H. Summers withdrew his name from
consideration to succeed Ben S. Bernanke as chairman of the Federal Reserve when
he steps down at the end of January, Andrew Ross Sorkin writes in the DealBook
column. "What if Janet L. Yellen doesn't get the job?"

"While the conventional wisdom is that the vice chairwoman, Ms. Yellen, is now
almost assured the job, some White House and Fed watchers are not-so-privately
speculating that President Obama may still choose another candidate," Mr. Sorkin
writes. "His name is Donald L. Kohn, a former Fed vice chairman. He has a big
fan whispering in the ear of President Obama: Timothy F. Geithner, the former
Treasury secretary, who has been informally consulted by the White House on the
selection."

Still, Mr. Kohn, who has long worried about the Fed's independence and has
sometimes pushed back against Mr. Bernanke's efforts to be more public,
ultimately may not get the job. "Just can't see Obama going for anyone other
than Yellen - the pushback within his own party would be intense and it would
revive all sorts of gender issues," said Greg Valliere, chief political
strategist at the Potomac Research Group, where, coincidentally, Mr. Kohn serves
as a senior economic strategist.

ON THE AGENDA  |  Occupy Wall Street is holding a rally to celebrate its second
anniversary. Jacob J. Lew, the Treasury secretary, speaks at the Economic Club
of Washington at 7:45 a.m.  James Chanos, the president of Kynikos Associates,
is on Bloomberg TV at 11 a.m. Jack Dorsey, the Twitter co-founder, is on
Bloomberg TV at 6 p.m.

COMPLYING WITH TAX EVASION LAW IS VEXING FOREIGN BANKS  |
"A sweeping new federal law has a seemingly simple goal - curbing offshore tax
evasion by Americans through foreign banks, trusts and shell companies. But
behind the scenes, foreign banks and financial firms are increasingly finding
that complying with the law is a major headache," Lynnley Browning reports in
DealBook.

"Treasury Department officials say they are moving apace in getting the world's
banks on board with the law, the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act," Ms.
Browning writes. "But some financial institutions, trade groups, scholars and
members of Congress have raised an array of concerns, starting with the cost of
creating the complex computer systems needed to track Americans' accounts."

 |  Contact: @williamalden | E-mail

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

Mergers & Acquisitions »

Huntsman to Buy Rockwood Units for $1.1 Billion  |  The chemical company
Huntsman said it would buy the paint pigments and performance additives
businesses of Rockwood Holdings for $1.1 billion in cash.
REUTERS

Tencent of China Buys Stake in Search Company  |  The Asian Internet giant
Tencent Holdings paid $448 million for a 36.5 percent stake in the Sogou search
unit of Sohu.com, with an option to increase it to 40 percent, Bloomberg News
reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS

KPN Books Loss on Sale of German Unit  |  The Dutch cellphone operator KPN
announced on Monday that it would book a $4.9 billion loss on the sale of its
German unit E-Plus to the Spanish giant Telefónica, possibly making KPN more
valuable to América Móvil, which is seeking to acquire it.
DealBook »

Boise Inc. Is Sold for $1.28 Billion  |  The Packaging Corporation of America
agreed on Monday to buy a rival, Boise Inc., for $1.28 billion.
PRESS RELEASE

A Fallen Billionaire in Brazil Takes Stock  |  "I am the biggest loser in this.
I tried to create wealth for all of us. That was the reason we raised all the
money - to create wealth and share it," Eike Batista told The Wall Street
Journal. "I believed in it. Living in a country that has these gigantic oil
discoveries, why shouldn't I have been blessed with one?"
WALL STREET JOURNAL

INVESTMENT BANKING »

The Financial Crisis, Five Years Later  |  Andrew Ross Sorkin remembers the day
the economic collapse began and offers answers to three tough, lingering
questions.
DealBook »

Since Lehman's Collapse, Companies More Forthcoming on Compliance  |  Since the
collapse of Lehman Brothers, companies are committing a lot more time, money and
resources to comply with a host of regulatory requirements, Peter J. Henning
writes in the White Collar Watch column.
DealBook »

By Their Own Measures, Banks Claim to Be Safer  |  "The results of internal
stress tests released on Monday may have been helped by the banks having built
capital levels in recent months as the economy showed some signs of improvement
and they earned more money," Reuters writes.
REUTERS

Goldman Names New Chief Information Officer  |  Goldman Sachs named R. Martin
Chavez to become chief information officer when Steven Scopellite retires at the
end of the year, Reuters reports, citing internal memos on Monday.
REUTERS

Banks' Pitch to Expatriate Indians: Loans for Dollar Deposits  |  Reuters
reports: "Foreign banks are pushing to raise billions of dollars from expatriate
Indians in response to New Delhi's drive to defend its weak currency, which
could mean the government can avoid the need for a sovereign bond or
state-backed deposit scheme to attract inflows."
REUTERS

PRIVATE EQUITY »

In Britain, a Tax Crackdown on Private Equity  |  Danny Alexander, chief
secretary to the Treasury in Britain, plans to announce "a crackdown on tax
loopholes being used by the 'vast majority' of partners in private equity and
accountancy firms to shelter their earnings from the taxman," The Financial
Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES

HEDGE FUNDS »

Morgan Creek Starts Mutual Fund  |  The new fund will allow average stock and
bond investors to get a taste of the exclusive world of hedge funds,
traditionally reserved for pension funds, charities, big institutions and the
ultra wealthy.
DealBook »

I.P.O./OFFERINGS »

For Twitter, Key to Revenue Is No Longer Ad Simplicity  |  Virtually all of
Twitter's revenue, estimated to be $583 million this year, currently comes from
three basic ad formats, reports Vindu Goel for The New York Times.
DealBook »

Twitter's Plans May Run Into China's Attitudes Toward the Internet  |  Twitter
has opportunities to sell advertising to Chinese enterprises, but it may do well
to pay attention to the government's approach there to managing the Internet,
Bill Bishop writes in the China Insider column.
DealBook » | DealBook: Looking to Twitter to Reignite Tech I.P.O.'s

With Its Stock Rising, Pandora Plans to Sell Shares  |  Pandora Media and one of
its investors plan to offer 14 million shares by the end of the week.
WALL STREET JOURNAL

Marchionne Still Low-Balling Chrysler  |  A Chrysler initial public offering
would cost Fiat time and money better spent on integrating the companies. It's
time for the chief executive, Sergio Marchionne, to increase his offer for the
remaining stake, Olaf Storbeck of Reuters Breakingviews writes.
REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS

VENTURE CAPITAL »

Facebook and Twitter Blocked Again in Iran  |  The New York Times reports:
"Internet users in Iran lost access Tuesday to Facebook and Twitter, a day after
they were surprised to find that they could get on the sites without having to
evade a government's firewall that had blocked direct access to the Web sites
for years."
NEW YORK TIMES

LEGAL/REGULATORY »

Push for Yellen to Lead the Fed Gains Momentum  |  Janet L. Yellen, who had told
friends she did not expect to be nominated as the next chairman of the Federal
Reserve, has now "became the front-runner by elimination, officials close to the
White House said," The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES

Storm Brewing as the Fed Plans to End Its Stimulus  |  Sheila Bair, the former
chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, writes in an essay in
The Financial Times that "gale-force winds are possible" when the Federal
Reserve "tapers" its bond-buying program.
FINANCIAL TIMES

Barclays Faces Fine in Qatar Deal  |  Barclays said on Monday that Britain's
financial regulator had concluded the bank acted "recklessly" when it raised
emergency money from Qatari investors during the financial crisis and could be
fined $79 million.
DealBook »

Britain Sells Stake in Lloyds for $5.1 Billion  |  Britain has sold a 6 percent
stake of Lloyds Banking Group stock for $5.1 billion, which reduces the
government holding in the firm to 33 percent.
DealBook »

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.



                              
 Morning Agenda: Associates of Madoff May Face Charges

 

ASSOCIATES OF MADOFF MAY FACE CHARGES  |  Federal prosecutors in Manhattan,
facing a December deadline to bring additional charges connected to Bernard L.
Madoff's Ponzi scheme, are considering criminal charges against several people
connected to the case, DealBook's Peter Lattman reports. Among those under
scrutiny are Shana Madoff Swanson, a senior executive at the firm, and Paul J.
Konigsberg, a longtime accountant in Mr. Madoff's inner circle.

When Mr. Madoff confessed in December 2008, that started the clock on a
five-year statute of limitations to bring securities fraud charges. Any new
charges would come just weeks before a criminal trial on Oct. 7, when five
former employees of Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities - Daniel Bonventre,
Annette Bongiorno, Joann Crupi, Jerome O'Hara and George Perez - are scheduled
to stand trial in Federal District Court in Manhattan on charges they aided the
fraud. The defendants are expected to argue that they had no idea their boss was
a crook, Mr. Lattman writes.

S.&P. BOND DEALS ON THE RISE WITH RELAXED CRITERIA  |  Standard & Poor's was
hesitant in the wake of the financial crisis to rate most of the new bonds tied
to residential mortgages. But last year, as banks began reviving the market for
bonds, S.& P.'s tough stance was hurting the bottom line, Nathaniel Popper
reports in DealBook.

At a meeting in the summer of 2012, analysts responsible for rating bonds tied
to home loans were informed that their unit had sustained big losses in the
previous quarter, Mr. Popper reports. The analysts were not told explicitly to
relax their standards to win back business, according to an employee at the
meeting who spoke on the condition of anonymity. But this person said the
numbers made it clear that if the division wanted to stay afloat, the analysts
would have to make changes.

A few months later, they did exactly that, and the changes seemed to work. More
banks started choosing S.&P., and the ratings agency in turn faced criticism
from industry participants. "It kind of blindsided all of us," said one banker
involved in the deals at the time, who was not authorized to speak publicly. "It
turns out you could water these down and have them rated by S.& P."

DIMON VOWS TO FIX COMPLIANCE PROBLEMS  |  With JPMorgan Chase poised to pay
roughly $800 million to a host of government agencies over its
multibillion-dollar trading loss last year, Jamie Dimon, the bank's chief
executive, offered an unvarnished message to employees on Tuesday, Jessica
Silver-Greenberg reports in DealBook. He said in a companywide memo that
JPMorgan is working to "face our issues, roll up our sleeves, and fix" the
compliance and control problems throughout the bank.

Mr. Dimon said that "we are aggressively tackling these challenges." He
explained the contours of that strategy in his memo, including how the bank
"deployed massive new resources and refocused critical managerial time" on the
effort.

ON THE AGENDA  |  With questions swirling about the next Federal Reserve
chairman, the central bank is set to release a statement about monetary policy
and announce economic projections at 2 p.m. Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman,
holds a press conference at 2:30 p.m. FedEx announces earnings before the market
opens, and Oracle announces earnings this evening. Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief
executive of Goldman Sachs, is on CNBC at 8:30 a.m.

DOLE BUYOUT HAS FAMILIAR FLAVOR  |  "Once is apparently not enough for David H.
Murdock, the chief executive of the Dole Food Company," Steven M. Davidoff
writes in the Deal Professor column. Mr. Murdock, who has offered to acquire the
fruit company for $13.50 a share in a buyout that has been approved by the
board, has done this before, in 2003. "But a lawsuit brought by some
shareholders in the Delaware Chancery Court is challenging the deal, contending
that it is rife with conflicts as Mr. Murdock uses his previous experience at
taking Dole private to his advantage."

 |  Contact: @williamalden | E-mail

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

Mergers & Acquisitions »

Lofty Bids Emerge for New York Tower  |  The real estate family that controls
the Empire State Building could move ahead as soon as this week with plans to
sell shares to the public through a real estate investment trust, The New York
Times reports. But prospective buyers continue to come out of the woodwork.
NEW YORK TIMES

Onex Said to Plan a Sale of the Warranty Group  |  The Canadian private equity
firm Onex "is preparing to sell the Warranty Group, a provider of extended
warranty contracts, which is expected to fetch more than $1 billion, two people
familiar with the matter said this week," Reuters reports.
REUTERS

The Sound of Consolidation  |  Pandora's stock sale will give it a war chest of
more than $200 million to pursue smaller rivals, Robert Cyran of Reuters
Breakingviews writes.
REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS

Microsoft Increases Its Quarterly Dividend  |  Microsoft said its board approved
a 22 percent increase in the quarterly dividend in addition to a new $40 billion
stock buyback program.
ASSOCIATED PRESS

China Internet Giant Buys Stake in Search Engine  |  Tencent Holdings, China's
biggest Internet company, invested $448 million for a 36.5 percent stake in
Sogou, helping the company keep pace with its rivals, Alibaba and Baidu.
DealBook »

INVESTMENT BANKING »

Occupy Has Mellow 2nd Birthday, With Appearance From the Hipster Cop  |  The
smaller turnout on Tuesday for the second anniversary of Occupy Wall Street
caused some private grumbling among protesters, but they said the reasons for
their movement remained relevant.
DealBook »

After Lehman, Getting the Band Back Together  |  Three former "house bands" from
Lehman Brothers planned to rock out Tuesday evening at an event to commemorate
the five-year anniversary of the firm's collapse.
WALL STREET JOURNAL

To Buff Its Image, A.I.G. Hires Marketing Officer From Goldman  |  After 17
years at Goldman Sachs, David May is headed to the American International Group
to be the insurer's chief marketing officer, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS

Versace Mansion Sells for $41.5 Million  |  Casa Casuarina, the mansion in Miami
Beach where the fashion designer Gianni Versace was killed, sold at auction on
Tuesday to a group that includes the owners of Jordache Enterprises, Bloomberg
News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS

PRIVATE EQUITY »

Inspired by Professor, Investor Makes Big Gift for Black Studies  |  Glenn
Hutchins is expected to announce the gift on Wednesday to create the Hutchins
Center for African and African-American Research at Harvard.
DealBook »

Talks to Begin Over Energy Future Holdings  |  Groups of creditors and other
investors are clashing over a possible bankruptcy filing for Energy Future
Holdings, the company that was taken private in the biggest leveraged buyout
ever. The creditor camps plan to meet on Friday for talks, The Wall Street
Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL

HEDGE FUNDS »

Safeway Puts Up Defense After Hedge Fund Amasses Stake  |  The $6 billion hedge
fund Jana Partners has disclosed a 6.2 percent stake in Safeway and has begun
agitating for changes at the grocer.
DealBook »

Dutch Fund Calls for Change at Barrick Gold  |  The Wall Street Journal reports:
"A Dutch pension giant is leading the call from a group of European fund
managers pressing for governance changes at Barrick Gold Corp., including a
speedier boardroom shake-up and a succession plan for founder Peter Munk."
WALL STREET JOURNAL

I.P.O./OFFERINGS »

Two Senior Employees to Leave Facebook  |  Justin Shaffer, a product manager,
and Ashley Zandy,  a manager on the corporate communications team, are leaving
Facebook, in "the latest exits for the still rapidly growing company," The Wall
Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL

VENTURE CAPITAL »

J. Crew Chief to Join Warby Parker's Board  |  Warby Parker, the three-year-old
start-up that is the purveyor of fashionable eyeglasses, plans to announce on
Tuesday that it has named Millard S. Drexler, the chief executive of J. Crew, as
a director.
DealBook »

An Advertising Innovator Has Seed Money for New Ones  |  Alex Bogusky could be
called the Johnny Appleseed of advertising, Stuart Elliott writes in the
Advertising column in The New York Times.
NEW YORK TIMES

LEGAL/REGULATORY »

Ex-JPMorgan Trader Slams Government's Case  |  A lawyer for Julien Grout, a
former JPMorgan Chase trader indicted on charges that he hid losses to protect
his bonus, contends his client is being used as a scapegoat.
DEALBOOK

22 Hedge Funds Settle S.E.C. Market Manipulation Charges  |  D.E. Shaw and
Deerfield Management were among the firms that have agreed to pay a total of
$14.4 million to the agency.
DealBook » | DealBook: Wielding Broader Powers, S.E.C. Visits Hedge Funds in
London

Wielding Broader Powers, S.E.C. Examines Hedge Funds in London  |  The
Securities and Exchange Commission is expanding its influence in Britain, but
the scrutiny is causing consternation among London money managers.
DealBook »

Maker of Electric Car Charging Stations Files for Bankruptcy  |  Ecotality,
which won a $99.8 million grant from the Department of Energy four years ago,
has filed for bankruptcy protection with plans to auction its assets, Reuters
reports.
REUTERS

Former Broker Pleads Guilty to Wire Fraud  |  Reuters reports: "A former broker
for Wells Fargo and Morgan Stanley has pleaded guilty to wire fraud over what
federal prosecutors called a $1.8 million check fraud scheme that cheated a
widowed client in her 80s."
REUTERS

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.



                              
 More on Dysfunctionology: Minority Rules

 

Jared Bernstein is a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities
in Washington and a former chief economist to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.

I continue to believe that dysfunctionology - the study of why our national
politics are so deeply screwed up - is an essential discipline for those of us
who long for politicians who actually try to solve, not create, problems.

As I noted earlier this week:

... gerrymandering is clearly implicated. The fact of "safe," noncompetitive
districts...robs the political process of a disciplinary force, where members
could conceivably be held to task for shutdowns and defaults.

Ryan Lizza of The New Yorker has raised interesting points about this in an
article that maps the districts of Republican representatives who signed a
letter urging Speaker Boehner to use the threat of a government shutdown to
defund Obamacare.  Representative Mark Meadows, who drafted the letter,
represents North Carolina's 11th District - one that Mr. Lizza notes was
gerrymandered after the 2010 census to become the most Republican district in
the state.

There are 80 of these members, and Mr. Lizza points out that "[t]he ability of
eighty members of the House of Representatives to push the Republican Party into
a strategic course that is condemned by the party's top strategists is a
historical oddity."

"These eighty members represent just eighteen per cent of the House and just a
third of the two hundred and thirty-three House Republicans. They were elected
with fourteen and a half million of the hundred and eighteen million votes cast
in House elections last November, or twelve per cent of the total. In all, they
represent fifty-eight million constituents. That may sound like a lot, but it's
just eighteen per cent of the population...

"Obama defeated Romney by four points nationally. But in [these] districts,
Obama lost to Romney by an average of twenty-three points. The Republican
members themselves did even better. In these eighty districts, the average
margin of victory for the Republican candidate was thirty-four points.

"...these eighty members represent an America where the population is getting
whiter, where there are few major cities, where Obama lost the last election in
a landslide, and where the Republican Party is becoming more dominant and more
popular. Meanwhile, in national politics, each of these trends is actually
reversed."

Nothing you don't know if you follow this, but I found those numbers to be
illuminating.  Why such intense minority rule?  What's got America stuck in Cruz
control?

Someone in comments suggested that the courts had been far more lax on imposing
rules against gerrymandering.  Others noted that state legislatures are where
the gerrymandering action is, so you've got to crack this case from the bottom
up.  Those explanations resonate with me.

But you have to ask yourself why a relatively small fringe from a demographic
bubble has such sway over all the other, more moderate members of the party.
Say what you want about John Boehner, but believe me, he knows better than to
follow these guys down these paths to nowhere - or worse.  The lopsided vote
Friday in the Senate - where members are less bound by a narrow district - in
favor of cloture on the budget-patch bill actually provides a good
counterexample: 25 Republicans supported ending the debate, against the very
long-winded admonitions of Senator Cruz.

The answer seems to be fear. They're worried about being "primaried" from the
right. And if you can strike that fear into a politician, your control over them
is Svengali-like.  It's a power that Occupy Wall Street didn't even get close to
holding.  It's not even clear to me that "big labor," as the right calls the
labor movement, holds such sway anymore.  But this fear is at the heart of how a
small, extreme, demographically shrinking minority is controlling national
politics and even, when you consider the ramifications of default on our
sovereign debt, global economics.



     ·    The Path to Dysfunction
     ·    How to Gut Obamacare
     ·    The Debt Ceiling and Playing With Fire
     ·    50 Years After the House Vote for the Kennedy Tax Cut
     ·    Shutdown vs. Default: The Relative Impact



                              
 New York Today: Alive and Voting

 

Updated 10:42 a.m. |  The federal government may be closed, but local government
is very much alive this morning. Polls are open in the Democratic runoff for
public advocate, the official watchdog of other city agencies.

The race is between City Councilwoman Letitia James and State Senator Daniel L.
Squadron. There's no Republican candidate, so today's winner effectively gets
the job.

We asked them for one concrete thing they'd do if they won.

Ms. James would begin a program to "help parents access the Department of
Education maze, and make sure the needs of parents and students are always
prioritized over the D.O.E."

Mr. Squadron plans "an initiative to protect children at risk of abuse, hunger
and neglect by breaking down bureaucratic walls between city agencies - so we
can save kids' lives."

A past public advocate, Betsy Gotbaum, called the office "the place where people
can turn when they have no place else to turn, when they have problems with
government, with agencies and bureaucracy."

Polls are open till 9 p.m. Only registered Democrats can vote.

To find your polling place, go to nyc.pollsitelocator.com or call 866-VOTE-NYC
(212-868-3692).

Here's what else you need to know for Tuesday.

FEDERAL SHUTDOWN

Federal District Courts and post offices are open.

The Statue of Liberty and all federal parks are closed.

Social Security checks will be processed, but field offices will offer only
limited services.

Veterans Affairs medical facilities are operating, but some services are
limited.

WEATHER

More perfect voting weather: sunny and quite warm, with a high of 80.

COMMUTE

Subways [10:45]  No problems. Click for latest status.

PATH:  Starting today, the PATH fare is $2.50, up from $2.25.

Rails: Metro-North's New Haven line is running at only 50 percent capacity while
a power problem gets repaired. See advisory, schedule and map of temporary
park-and-ride lots at other stations.

Roads: Click for traffic map or radio report on the 1s.

Alternate-side parking is  in effect  all :week.

COMING UP TODAY

Enrollment is open for insurance under the Affordable Care Act. See the state
Web site and this primer.

On the campaign trail for mayor, Bill de Blasio is on 1010-WINS at 7:30 a.m.
Joseph J. Lhota tours Yeshiva University.

Supporters of Alex Rodriguez protest his steroid-related suspension outside
Major League Baseball headquarters on Park Avenue at 10 a.m.

The M.T.A. meets to consider refunds for commuters on the hobbled Metro-North
New Haven line. 3:30 p.m. at 347 Madison Avenue.

It's the final week the city is lending out poles for catch-and-release fishing
at Harlem Meer in Central Park. 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. [Free]

"Shelf Life," a series of readings by nonfiction authors, makes its debut at
Hullaballoo Books in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. 7 p.m.  [Free]

"Al-Mutanabbi Street Starts Here," a poetry reading and discussion about
Baghdad's ancient literary district, which was destroyed in 2007, at Poets
House, downtown. 7 p.m. [$10]

The 1980 killing of a violinist during the intermission of a Metropolitan Opera
House performance, known as the "Murder at the Met," is the focus of tonight's
"Motives and Murders" on the Investigation Discovery channel. 8 p.m.

For more events, see The New York Times Arts & Entertainment guide.

IN THE NEWS

Five people, including a toddler, were stabbed in an apparently random attack in
Riverside Park this morning. None of the injuries appeared life-threatening.
[New York Times]

Two parachutists dressed in black landed near ground zero at 3 a.m. Monday - and
vanished. [Daily News]

Oops. Con Edison said it probably caused the power failure that knocked out
Metro-North's New Haven line. [New York Times]

A proposed Occupy Wall Street debit card has drawn mixed reactions. [New York
Times]

Gov. Chris Christie moved to block a ruling that would require New Jersey to
allow gay marriages. [New York Times]

A study by the Police Department found that cancer among officers has soared
since 9/11. [Daily News]

A federal court upheld New York City's limit on the number of artists allowed to
sell their work in city parks. [DNAinfo]

A look way back at Bill de Blasio's high school advocacy for the cause of better
grammar instruction. [Boston Globe]

Free Wi-Fi is coming to 10 commercial districts in the city in December.
[Associated Press via CBS New York]

Terry Collins will keep his job as manager of the Mets. [ESPN]

The Hardee's  burger chain plans to open 200 restaurants in the Northeast, many
in New York and New Jersey. [Foodbeast]

New Yorkers stay out later and eat more brunch than San Franciscans. [Atlantic
Cities]

AND FINALLY...

Want to see a 160-pound bird on Staten Island?

Put your money where your mouth is.

The Staten Island Zoo has started an online fund-raising campaign to buy two
cassowaries.

Cassowaries are fierce-looking flightless creatures found more commonly - but
not that commonly - in the forests of New Guinea.

They have bony crests atop their bright blue heads and are the second-heaviest
birds on the planet.

Cassowaries are not very nice animals. But the zoo's curator, Mark Valitutto,
told DNAinfo: "They're absolutely stunningly beautiful. It's like somebody
painted them."

As of Tuesday morning, the zoo's campaign on indiegogo has raised $1,645 toward
its $20,000 goal.

Joseph Burgess contributed reporting.

New York Today is a morning roundup that stays live from 6 a.m. till about noon.

What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, e-mail us at
nytoday@nytimes.com or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday.

Find us on weekdays at nytimes.com/nytoday.



     ·    Week in Pictures for Sept. 27
     ·    Please Call Me Miss, Not Ma'am
     ·    A Candidate's Attack on a 'Marxist' Strategy
     ·    If the Train Were a Tetris Game
     ·    The Week in Pictures for Sept. 20



                              
 New York Today: Gay Marriage Crosses the River

 

Updated 1:10 p.m. |  On the day that gay marriages were first performed in New
York in 2011, supporters in New Jersey gathered on a pier in Hoboken.

They gazed across the Hudson toward New York.

"We said, 'Why can't we have that here?' " Hayley Gorenberg, deputy director of
Lambda Legal, a gay-rights group, recalled on Sunday.

Just after midnight today, the first same-sex couples were wed in New Jersey.

It was a victory for the movement that was spurred in part by the earlier
success in New York.

New Jersey had same-sex civil unions since 2007, but Ms. Gorenberg and others
convinced the courts that this arrangement did not give couples full equal
rights.

With the addition of New Jersey, the entire Eastern Seaboard from Maryland to
Maine now allows gay marriage.

New Jersey's law was solidified this morning when Gov. Chris Christie said his
administration would abandon further legal challenges to it.

Ms. Gorenberg noted that with so many people crossing state borders, legal
same-sex marriage in New York and not in New Jersey created confusion and
inconsistent treatment.

Now, she said, "People who live in the tristate area and function in the
tristate area - they're going to be able to harmonize it all."

Here's what else you need to know for Monday.

WEATHER

Enjoy the sunshine, for tomorrow it may rain. High of 66.

COMMUTE

Subways: Click for latest status.

Rails: Click for L.I.R.R., Metro-North or New Jersey Transit status.

Roads: Click for traffic map or radio report on the 1s.

Alternate-side parking is  in effect  all week.

COMING UP TODAY

Joseph J. Lhota tours the LGBT Community Center in the West Village, visits a
senior center in Brooklyn and attends a Log Cabin Republicans fund-raiser.

Bill de Blasio has no campaign appearances but makes a joint announcement with
the state attorney general, Eric Schneiderman.

Mayor Bloomberg will announce a consolidation of the city's vehicle fleet
expected to save more than $400 million.

The first Brooklyn Open golf tournament tees off at Marine Park Golf Course,
with a purse of $5,000.

The retired hockey great Bobby Orr reads from his new memoir at lunchtime at the
Barnes and Noble on East 54th Street. 12:30 p.m. [Free]

The New York Television Festival gets under way with free screenings of several
pilots at TriBeCa Cinemas.

A lecture on "Marriage, Romance and Early American Jews" at the main New York
Public Library. 5:30 p.m. [Free, registration required]

Boo! Free screening of "The Witches," starring Anjelica Huston, at Jefferson
Market Library in the Village. 6:30 p.m.

Terry Teachout discusses his new book about Duke Ellington at the Barnes and
Noble on East 86th Street. 7 p.m. [Free]

Monday Night Football: the Giants bring their season-long losing streak home and
face the Vikings.

For more events, see The New York Times Arts & Entertainment guide. Or check out
Flavorpill, where we found some of these events.

IN THE NEWS

Are you ready for the one-very-long-car subway train? It may be coming. In 30
years. [New York Times]

Charges have been dropped or dismissed against 96 percent of the 732 Occupy Wall
Street protesters arrested on the Brooklyn Bridge. [New York Times]

Six people were murdered in just over 36 hours this weekend, not long after a
nine-day stretch with only one murder. [Gothamist]

A new poll finds New Yorkers narrowly in favor of expanding casino gambling.
[Politics on the Hudson]

But another poll shows slipping support for the casino measure and has the
governor worried. [New York Post]

Water rates - up 78 percent since 2005 - are getting ready to rise again. [Daily
News]

Scoreboard: Jets beat Patriots, 30-27 in overtime.

AND FINALLY...

Mario M. Cuomo had long refused to watch "The Godfather," calling the film "an
ugly stereotype" for its portrayal of Italian-Americans.

On Sunday night, he relented.

Mr. Cuomo, the former governor and father of the current one, attended a
screening on the influence of "The Godfather" sponsored by the Forum on Law,
Culture and Society at Fordham Law School.

Mr. Cuomo pronounced the film "maybe a masterpiece" artistically.

Still, he reiterated that films that depict Italian-Americans as taking the law
into their own hands send "the worst possible messages."

Sandra E. Garcia contributed reporting.

New York Today is a morning roundup that stays live from 6 a.m. till about noon.

What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, e-mail us at
nytoday@nytimes.com or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday.

Find us on weekdays at nytoday.com.



                              
 Discussing 'Dissident Gardens'

 

Updated, 9:30 p.m. | Thanks to all who participated in tonight's lively
discussion. If you weren't able to make it feel free to leave your remarks in
the comments section throughout the week. - Ginia Bellafante

The first section of Jonathan Lethem's new novel, "Dissident Gardens," is titled
Boroughphobia, ironic if only because it is a condition from which Mr. Lethem
does not suffer. One of contemporary literature's best-known - and earliest -
chroniclers of Brooklyn, Mr. Lethem has now applied his eye for urban sociology
to Queens. His specific focus is Sunnyside Gardens, a neighborhood of row houses
with shared gardens developed in a utopian vision in the 1920s as one of the
country's first places for low- and middle-income families to buy homes. It was
a place so idyllic and progressive - "sanctified as a leftist social laboratory"
as Mr. Lethem writes - Sunnyside drew the architecture critic Lewis Mumford away
from the aristocratic splendors of Brooklyn Heights.

"Dissident Gardens" is an expansive family saga and history of the American
left, from the communist passions of the '30s to the Occupy Wall Street spirit
of the current century. From the book's initial pages we are instructed in the
hypocrisies of movements and of perfect, inclusive communities, when Rose
Zimmer, the family matriarch at the center of the novel's emotions, is
threatened with exile from her communist world in Sunnyside. Her crime - an
affair with a black police officer. ("Here was the Communist habit, the
Communist ritual: the living room trial, the respectable lynch mob that availed
yourself of your hospitality ... lifting a butter knife to slather a piece of
toast and using it in passing to sever you from that to which you had given your
life.")

Rose has ended up in Sunnyside in the first place because her German-Jewish
husband is torn between the urban and the pastoral. Is it simply suburbia in an
all too detectable disguise? Rigid and conformist?

The novel tracks the revolutionary spirit from one generation to the next, and
in each instance the world becomes less and less receptive to what feeds that
spirit. A book that begins with such a distinct sense of place - a neighborhood
in New York City enlivened by fiercely held ideologies - ends in the vacant
psychological space of an airport in a world fractured by fear. What do we make
of that?

Have we romanticized what it was to be a radical in New York? Has the city
become too inhospitable a place for real activism now? And what do we make of
the book's themes in light of the current moment? The end of the Bloomberg era
and the beginning, ostensibly, of a new moment for the left?

Share your thoughts in the comments below.



     ·    Discussing 'Native Speaker'
     ·    300 Manhattan Climbing Routes, and Not One of Them Indoors
     ·    A Live Conversation About 'Just Kids' by Patti Smith
     ·    With Tiny Libraries, Bringing Free Literature to the Streets
     ·    The Legacy of an Author Lingers at the Met



                              
 Dodd-Frank Is Indeed Taking Root

 

 David Zaring is assistant professor of legal studies at the Wharton School of
Business at the University of Pennsylvania.

The slow rollout of the Dodd-Frank Act has left many frustrated, but in reality,
much progress has been made in shaking up the financial industry.

To size up any new law, it's best to examine the progress it has made in three
stages:  a congressional stage,  where the law is passed; an agency stage, where
the rules to are written;  and judicial stage, in which the courts say whether
the rules that the agencies wrote can actually be imposed on the industry.

The agency stage has been a case study in slow progress.  But the good news for
the government is that, in the early days of judicial review, it is holding up
reasonably well.  Perhaps the time spent fashioning and justifying the many
rules required under Dodd-Frank is paying some dividends.

Dodd-Frank was pretty lengthy - 828 pages long, in fact. Many of those pages
were intended to set an agenda for federal regulators, rather than to leave the
regulating in the hands of Congress.  The statute required agencies to
promulgate 398 rules in the first instance and to conduct 87 studies, after
which, presumably, more rules might be issued.

That is a lot of rules.  Indeed, so far, 42 words of regulations have been
promulgated for every word of text in Dodd-Frank Act - a number that will grow,
as regulators have finished less than half of the rule-writing required by the
statute, by the calculations of the law firm Davis Polk.

It is easy to make fun of all those words, and lawmakers and journalists often
do.  Moreover, one can imagine regulators drowning in a sea of their new
responsibilities.  They have failed to meet many of the rule-making deadlines
Congress set for them when it passed the statute.  Along the way, the regulators
have been subjected to plenty of pressure by Wall Street, in the form of
comments on rules, complaints in meetings, and repeated efforts to amend the law
in Congress.  The heavy opposition has contributed to a process that has run
both long and late.

Important parts of the act - the Volcker Rule in particular - have not yet been
put in place. The agencies writing the details of rule, which is intended to
prevent banks from making speculative investments,  have had difficulty devising
a formula that captures the difference between that sort of speculation
(forbidden under Dodd-Frank), and market-making and hedging (permitted).

But even this tough slog is showing signs of  getting to the end.   One federal
regulator, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, has essentially finished
all of its Dodd-Frank rule-making obligations - and it is responsible for much
of the new oversight of derivatives markets called for by the statute.  The
Securities and Exchange Commission has as well, although it missed a lot of
statutory deadlines along the way.  And parts of the act, including the Collins
Amendment imposing capital requirements on financial conglomerates, are now in
place with final  rules.

Moreover, the time spent may be paying off when the agencies get taken to court.
It is early days, but the government has won more cases related to its rules
than it has lost.

As a rule of thumb, agencies can count on winning roughly two-thirds of the
cases in which they defend their rules.  But things have looked particularly
dark for financial regulators, who have faced exceeding skepticism from the
United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, the most
important regulatory court.

The D.C. circuit court has come close to imposing a cost-benefit analysis
requirement on any financial regulation that is predictable, only because the
Securities and Exchange Commission always loses when the court brings it up.

But there is some reason for consumers to take heart.

The D.C. circuit court has upheld the C.F.T.C. rules subjecting investment
companies to derivatives trading rules.  It turned away a challenge to new fees
rules set by the S.E.C. on exchanges for market data, as well as, in the first
instance, a challenge to the S.E.C.'s rule on resource extraction, requiring
oil, gas, and mineral extraction companies to disclose payments made to American
and  foreign governments.  Lower courts have upheld C.F.T.C. regulations of
commodity pool operators, and the S.E.C.'s conflict minerals rule requiring the
disclosure of the use of minerals extracted from certain war-torn countries.

It is not all rosy in the lower courts. Federal judges have rejected the
C.F.T.C.'s position limit rule (which limits the size of a bet that could be
made in various commodity markets) and, in the end, that resource extraction
rule.  Both of those cases are headed to the D.C. circuit court, which will then
get a chance to re-evaluate how to apply its stringent cost-benefit analysis
test to the architecture of Dodd-Frank.

On a broader front,  two plaintiffs have argued that Dodd-Frank
unconstitutionally empowers agencies to rule in the space of financial
regulation by fiat and at whim.  Those challenges, made by sophisticated
conservative lawyers, arguing on behalf of, in one case, a small Texas state
bank and three states, and in another, a small debt relief firm, have so far
have been unable to pass the many timing and standing hurdles that would allow
courts to address them.  A related problem has bedeviled the Occupy Wall Street
affiliate, Occupy the SEC, which is petitioned for the faster passage of more
rules, to no avail.

It is too soon to declare victory on the regulatory efforts to implement
Dodd-Frank in the courts but so far, I view the glass as half-full.

The early successes may pave the way for later ones, as no court is going to
want to be known as the place where a major legislative initiative is strangled
if it is doing so without company.  And, for that matter, few courts will have
the appetite to throw out hundreds of rules; in this sense, Dodd-Frank's best
judicial defense may lie in its comprehensiveness.

For now, American financial regulators are winning their fight to put through
Dodd-Frank the way they think it must be done.



     ·    JPMorgan Expected to Admit Fault in 'London Whale' Trading Loss
     ·    Since Lehman's Collapse, Companies More Forthcoming on Compliance



                              
 Twitter's Big Day

 

Twitter is ready for its Wall Street debut. The social media company set the
price of its initial public offering at $26 a share on Wednesday evening,
raising $1.8 billion and achieving a valuation of $18.1 billion, Vindu Goel
reports in The New York Times. Its stock is set to begin trading on Thursday
under the ticker symbol TWTR on the New York Stock Exchange. The I.P.O. price, a
subject of debate between the board and its underwriters until late on Wednesday
afternoon, came in above an already heightened price range, reflecting strong
demand for the stock, Mr. Goel reports.

And yet, investors in the stock offering face a number of risks. Attracting and
retaining users has become a big challenge for Twitter: The company's slowing
user growth has invited unfavorable comparisons with Facebook, the world's
largest social network, where about 1.2 billion people used the service at least
once a month in the third quarter. Twitter, by contrast, had 232 million monthly
users during the same period, up just 14 million, or 6.4 percent, from the
previous quarter. That rate is slower than what Facebook had when it was the
same size.

Twitter is generating large losses as it competes in a highly uncertain sector
of the economy, and that is precisely why investors were eager to get a piece of
the I.P.O., DealBook's Peter Eavis writes. Investors are betting that Twitter
will become wildly profitable as advertisers pay it increasing amounts of money
to reach consumers who use the service. "The possibilities and opportunities
afforded by the platform are limitless," Dick Costolo, Twitter's chief
executive, said in a company presentation to promote the offering. But if
history is a guide, the euphoria is unlikely to last, Mr. Eavis writes.

Twitter's stock price, even before its first day of trading, may already reflect
most of Wall Street's growth expectations, Mr. Eavis says. "The company could
start trading with a market value of around 11 times its expected 2015 revenue,
according to estimates from Sterne Agee. At that multiple, Twitter would already
be more expensive than other social companies, like Facebook, Yelp and
LinkedIn."

Twitter's record of losing money does not necessarily mean it will be sheltered
from taxes, Victor Fleischer writes in the Standard Deduction column. The
company wrote down the value of its tax assets by $42 million, according to the
prospectus for its I.P.O. That may be because ownership changes "are likely to
restrict Twitter's ability to use net operating losses under the Internal
Revenue Service Code," Mr. Fleischer writes.

DealBook will be running a live blog of Twitter's first day of trading.

BONUSES PREDICTED TO RISE, UNLESS YOU'RE A BOND TRADER  | Financial advisers,
asset managers and underwriting investment bankers can expect their 2013 bonuses
to rise as much as 15 percent, according to a produced by Johnson Associates to
be released on Thursday. Over all, the survey shows, Wall Street employees can
expect year-end bonuses to grow 5 to 10 percent on average, the second
consecutive year of increases, DealBook's Rachel Abrams reports.

But bonuses for bond traders, who had a rough year because of interest rate
instability, could drop by just as much or more. "The predictions reflect a new
reality for Wall Street's biggest banks, whose fixed-income revenues have
plummeted amid a choppy bond market," Ms. Abrams writes.

ON THE AGENDA  |
Twitter is set to begin trading. Groupon and FireEye report earnings after the
market closes. An estimate of gross domestic product in the third quarter is
released at 8:30 a.m. Dick Costolo, Twitter's boss, is on CNBC at 9 a.m. and
Bloomberg TV at 9:30 a.m.

AN ARGUMENT FOR GOVERNMENT INVOLVEMENT IN HOUSING  | "Congress is debating what
to do about Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-owned mortgage insurance
companies that collapsed during the 2008 financial crisis," Jesse Eisinger of
ProPublica writes in his column, The Trade. "The leading proposals involve
getting rid of the Frannies to have private companies create mortgage-backed
securities." But, Mr. Eisinger says, "there's a good argument that preserving
the government's large and active role will make the market safer and more
efficient than the overhaul."

A large government role is unavoidable, Mr. Eisinger writes. And it may be more
honest. "Because the government obligation is inevitable, it ought to be
transparent and explicit rather than obscure. Keeping Fannie and Freddie as
government operations is the cleanest way to do this."

DEALBOOK'S COMING CONFERENCE  |  On Nov. 12, The New York Times will host its
second annual DealBook conference in Manhattan. Speakers include Preet Bharara,
David Bonderman, Ray Dalio, Barry Diller, Laurence D. Fink, Valerie Jarrett,
Daniel S. Loeb, Elon Musk, Ruth Porat and David M. Rubenstein, among others.
Don't hesitate to submit questions online.

 |  Contact: @williamalden | E-mail

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

Mergers & Acquisitions »

Nestle to Sell Its Jenny Craig Brand to Private Equity Firm  |  The deal,
excluding the Jenny Craig business in France, comes seven years after Nestlé
spent $600 million to buy the weight-loss company from two private equity firms.
Financial terms were not disclosed. DealBook »

Health Care Deal Is Latest to Seek Corporate Tax Shelter Abroad  |  Endo
Health's proposed acquisition of Paladin Labs is the latest so-called inversion,
and comes amid a flurry of mergers intended to extract American companies from
federal taxes. DealBook »

D.E Master Blenders to Increase Stake in Norwegian Rival  |  D.E Master
Blenders, the owner of Douwe Egberts coffee, said it would increase its stake in
Kaffehuset Friele, a Norwegian coffee company, to 90 percent from 45 percent.
REUTERS

INVESTMENT BANKING »

Police Commissioner Said to Be in Talks With JPMorgan  |  New York City's police
commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, is not waiting for the mayor-elect to replace
him. The New York Post reports that Mr. Kelly, who oversaw a crackdown on Occupy
Wall Street, "is in advanced talks to take the top security job at JPMorgan
Chase." NEW YORK POST

2 French Banks Report Higher Profits  |  Société Générale increased litigation
provisions in the third quarter amid the European Commission's investigation of
suspected rigging of benchmark euro zone interest rates, while Crédit Agricole
said it would not settle. DealBook »

Goldman Enforces a Day of Rest on Saturday  |  According to an internal
memorandum published by Dealbreaker, Goldman Sachs is requiring young bankers to
take Saturday off. DEALBREAKER

A Wall Street Island for Lhota  |  A precinct on the Upper West Side cast just
39 votes - 33 of them for the Republican mayoral candidate, Joseph J. Lhota, who
lost in a landslide to Bill de Blasio. DealBook »

India Gives Foreign Banks a Door Into Local Market  |  "India's central bank
unveiled late Wednesday a far-reaching set of regulations to allow foreign banks
into the country's long-protected domestic market. But it demanded that they do
so through subsidiaries incorporated in India and said that eligibility would be
limited to banks from countries that reciprocate by letting in Indian banks,"
The New York Times writes. NEW YORK TIMES

How Spanish Banks Made Their Books Look Better  |  "Spanish lenders had been
making their loan books look healthier than they really were by refinancing big
numbers of loans to struggling homeowners and businesses," The Wall Street
Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL

PRIVATE EQUITY »

Carlyle Posted Lower Third-Quarter Earnings  |  For the private equity giant
Carlyle Group, the quarter was a relatively slow one when it came to "exits,"
industry parlance for realizing gains on investments. DealBook »

Fund Sees Buyout Opportunities in Vietnam  |  A fund manager in Vietnam that is
a joint venture between Franklin Templeton Investments and a bank argues that
now is a good time for private equity firms to invest in the country, Bloomberg
News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS

HEDGE FUNDS »

Elliott Amasses Stake in Celesio of Germany  |  Elliott International, run by
Paul E. Singer, has bought a stake of nearly 12 percent in Celesio, a German
drug distributor that is the subject of a takeover bid by McKesson, an American
rival, Reuters reports. REUTERS

Battle Over ValueVision Set to Heat Up  |  The move by the activist hedge fund
Clinton Group to try to oust senior executives at the Internet and shopping
network ValueVision Media is poised to become a bitter fight. DealBook »

I.P.O./OFFERINGS »

Square Is Said to Consider a Public Offering Next Year  |  The mobile payments
company Square, which is run by Jack Dorsey, has had talks with banks including
Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley about an initial public offering in 2014, The
Wall Street Journal reports, citing an unidentified person familiar with the
matter. WALL STREET JOURNAL

U.S. Investors Brush Aside Fears About Chinese Internet Companies  |  The
interest in stateside I.P.O.'s of Chinese Internet companies is a striking
contrast with the recent past, when accounting scams and poor governance
prompted many to shun Chinese stocks, Peter Thal Larsen of Reuters Breakingviews
writes. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS

Investors Cool to 2 Chinese Bank Offerings  |  Investors were concerned about
how China's financial system would cope with a potential deluge of bad debt that
could swamp the country's economy. DealBook »

VENTURE CAPITAL »

Vote of Confidence in Mexico's Version of Amazon.com  |  The Mexican venture
capital firm Latin Idea Ventures said it had made its first investment in an
e-commerce company, Linio, a start-up that sells products in Latin America.
DealBook »

LEGAL/REGULATORY »

S.E.C. Has a Word of Caution for Investors in Tech Companies  |  Mary Jo White,
the head of the Securities and Exchange Commission, warned in speech on
Wednesday that technology companies with lots of users would not always be able
to turn those impressive numbers into actual profit, The Financial Times
reports. It so happens that a prominent technology company is set to have its
trading debut on Thursday. FINANCIAL TIMES

SAC's $1.2 Billion Settlement Clears One Judicial Hurdle and Awaits Another  |
One judge has agreed to sign off on the civil portion of SAC Capital Advisors'
insider trading guilty plea and roughly $1.2 billion penalty; another will hold
a hearing on the $900 million criminal fine. DealBook »

An Old Video Surfaces of Cohen on Insider Trading Rules  |  Video excerpts from
a 2011 deposition with Steven A. Cohen of SAC Capital Advisors provide a new
glimpse of the owner behind the first large Wall Street firm in a generation to
confess to criminal conduct. Although a transcript had been previously reported,
the video on PBS Frontline shows how Mr. Cohen paused to answer questions on his
hedge fund's compliance and ethics policies on insider trading. FRONTLINE

Yellen Met With Bank Chieftains Before Nomination  |  As speculation grew that
the Federal Reserve vice chair, Janet L. Yellen, would be nominated to lead the
central bank, "her appointment book beginning in April became peppered with
meetings with the titans of finance," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.



                              
 SAC Trader Had 'Secret Pipeline' of Information, Prosecutors Say

 

Michael S. Steinberg is "successful, steady, serious," said a lawyer for the
most senior employee at SAC Capital Advisors to be charged with insider trading.
And unlike the hard-charging billionaires who rule Wall Street's top hedge
funds, Mr. Steinberg was a history and philosophy major who started at SAC as a
low-level clerk, the lawyer said.

Federal prosecutors, however, view the trader through a darker lens. Mr.
Steinberg, they said, tapped into a corrupt insider trading conspiracy to make
"big money" for himself. He also, they say, pushed a lower-level employee at SAC
to provide "edgy" and illegal information about technology companies.

Those dueling portrayals of Mr. Steinberg, a 41-year-old trader who was among
SAC's earliest employees, emerged on Wednesday from opening arguments in his
criminal insider trading trial at Federal District Court in Lower Manhattan. Mr.
Steinberg is the first SAC employee to stand trial in the government's
decade-long investigation of the hedge fund, which is run by the billionaire
stock picker Steven A. Cohen.

Mr. Steinberg's trial, which strikes at the heart of that investigation, is
unfolding two weeks after SAC agreed to pay $1.2 billion and plead guilty to
five counts of insider trading violations. The authorities indicted the fund in
July, pointing to a "systematic" insider trading scheme that spanned several
employees and more than a decade.

The trial, the authorities contend, will illuminate the culture at SAC that
opened it to such scrutiny. Of the eight SAC employees charged criminally, six
have pleaded guilty to securities fraud.

Mr. Steinberg is accused of trading the stocks of technology companies like Dell
and Nvidia after receiving confidential information about their earnings. He
received this through Jon Horvath, an SAC employee who was plugged into a
network of analysts that shared and traded notes on the companies. The original
sources of the information, employees at Dell and Nvidia, have not been accused
of any wrongdoing.

Mr. Steinberg's lawyer, Barry H. Berke, and the assistant United States
attorney, Antonia M. Apps, delivered opening arguments to a jury of nine women
and three men that included two accountants and a former Postal Service worker.

Ms. Apps outlined the evidence the government would present: emails, phone
records and trading records between Mr. Steinberg, Mr. Horvath and other
analysts. This evidence would provide a "unique window" into the world of
insider trading and the "secret pipeline" that Mr. Steinberg had into certain
companies, she said.

"The defendant wanted" inside information, Ms. Apps said, "and the defendant
got" it.

For his part, Mr. Berke explained to the jury the world of hedge funds, likening
it to mutual funds, investments that many of the jurors had earlier disclosed
that they owned. He also sought to distance Mr. Steinberg from the sharp-elbowed
world of Wall Street, emphasizing how SAC managed millions of dollars on behalf
of pension funds and universities.

The case, Mr. Berke said, hinges on Mr. Horvath.

The government presented Mr. Horvath as an employee who aimed to please Mr.
Steinberg and who worked hard to provide him with the research and information
he needed to make fruitful trades.

Under pressure to provide "edgy proprietary information" of the kind that would
satisfy Mr. Steinberg, the prosecutor said, Mr. Horvath turned to a circle of
friends and analysts that shared information.

As evidence, the government will reference an email from August 2008 in which
Mr. Horvath told Mr. Steinberg that he had "a 2ndhand read from someone" at
Dell, adding, "Please keep to yourself as obviously not well known."

Mr. Steinberg replied: "Yes normally we would never divulge data like this, so
please be discreet."

Mr. Berke sought to undermine Mr. Horvath's significance, saying that he was
"recreating history" in a desperate attempt to strike a deal with the
government.

The opening remarks came late in the afternoon on the second day of jury
selection. The pool of jury candidates included Occupy Wall Street participants.
Two others disclosed that they had been investigated by the Securities and
Exchange Commission. They were all dismissed.

"I know there are strong views about Wall Street," Mr. Berke said as he wrapped
up his opening remarks just after 5 p.m.

Mr. Berke urged the jurors to consider one question: Whether the government
could prove beyond a reasonable doubt that Mr. Steinberg was guilty. Referring
to Mr. Steinberg's family in the gallery, Mr. Berke reminded members of the jury
that they were holding the fate of one man in their hands.



     ·    Cooperating Witness a Key in SAC Insider Trading Case
     ·    S.E.C. Charges Are the Latest Test for SAC's Cohen



                              
 Following a Recruit, and Sizing Up the Atlanta Police Force

 

In mid-August 2012, I was reporting the article that appears in this Sunday's
magazine about Jacob Deng Mach, a Sudanese refugee - one of the so-called Lost
Boys - who was hoping to become an Atlanta police officer. The 22-week training
was notoriously grueling, and on his sixth day at the academy, Mach pulled up
lame during a one-and-half-mile run. Academy officials sent him to an orthopedic
clinic that saw a steady stream of injured recruits, and I followed in my car
along with the video reporter, Brent McDonald, and the photographer, Béatrice de
Géa.

We were waiting for Jacob in the clinic parking lot, when a woman backed into my
unoccupied car. After I called 911, an extremely overweight patrolman from the
City of Hapeville showed up on his motorcycle. His physique - he joked that he
would not be much use in a foot chase - was particularly striking in light of
the rigorous physical training we had watched the Atlanta recruits endure.
Jacobs and his classmates were constantly required to run and do push-ups,
jumping jacks and leg lifts. They boxed, wrestled and repeatedly ran a
challenging obstacle course, once after being pepper-sprayed. They rarely
stopped moving, even jogging double-time to the bathroom. Not all were fit on
Day 1. But  to graduate, they would have to be in the best shape of their lives.

Once on the job, they don't have to be. In Atlanta, as in virtually every police
department in the country, there is no requirement that officers maintain a
minimum level of fitness once they leave the academy. Some departments have
voluntary programs or offer incentives to stay in shape, and many officers make
a serious effort. But others settle quickly into largely sedentary jobs at their
desks or in cars and morph into the doughnut-chomping stereotype. The commander
of Atlanta's police academy, Major Jeffrey Glazier, told me that all officers
have to be recertified annually in firearms use. But there is no comparable
requirement for physical fitness, and he estimated that as many as one-quarter
of the city's force might not be in shape to work the streets. Not surprisingly,
a recent study by the International Association of Chiefs of Police found that
unfit and overweight officers were more likely to sustain injuries than their
in-shape counterparts, at considerable cost to their departments.

That said, we also saw a number of recruits injured at the academy in the
process of getting in shape, some with lengthy recuperations while on the police
payroll. For Jacob, his leg injury - which was eventually diagnosed as a stress
fracture - meant spending four months answering phones for the fugitive squad.



     ·    Behind the Cover Story: Ted Conover on the Murky World of the 'Snitch'
     ·    The Underappreciated Hunks of Occupy Wall Street
     ·    My Three Favorite Teams - Despite Everything
     ·    The China Model in Africa



                              
 Financial Reform Remains a Work in Progress

 

Simon Johnson, former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, is the
Ronald A. Kurtz professor of entrepreneurship at the M.I.T. Sloan School of
Management and co-author of "White House Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our
National Debt, and Why It Matters to You."

Of all the arguments put forward by big banks and their allies in recent years
against financial reform, the line that surfaced last week was arguably the most
strange. Wall Street has been reformed, according to this view: There was a
great battle, and we (the big banks) lost. There is, consequently, nothing more
to do.

In contrast to that position, I suggest that the decisive battles lie ahead.
Some regulatory changes are in the works, but these are relatively limited and
all would be easily reversible if attitudes change.

The dangers to the global economy posed by very large banks are more clearly
understood by a handful of people in policy-making circles. On the other hand,
many influential people in Washington refuse even to discuss how to measure the
extent to which undercapitalized megabanks contribute to the risk of serious
crisis, as well as the true cost of such crises.

Megabanks' lobbyists and other representatives certainly remain hard at work. At
a House Financial Services Committee hearing last week, they continued to push
back against the Volcker Rule. The charge, as so often in the last five years,
was led by the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, known as
Sifma, which represents many companies in the securities industry, but which
always seems to have the interests of the biggest closest to heart.

The chairman of Sifma is Jim Rosenthal, chief operating officer of Morgan
Stanley; the vice chairman is John Rogers, executive vice president at Goldman
Sachs, and so on.

The president and chief executive of Sifma is Kenneth E. Bentsen Jr., who
previously served in the House of Representatives and was a member of the House
Financial Services Committee. While in Congress, Mr. Bentsen was a Democrat, but
at the hearing last week he seemed more closely in tune with the Republicans.

Mr. Bentsen and most Republicans asserted that the Volcker Rule did not involve
sufficient consideration of the potential costs, despite a comment period and
rule-making process that over three and a half years involved close to 20,000
letters from and more than 100 meetings with the industry. The implication from
Republican members of Congress was that the rule should be scrapped or
substantially scaled back.

For much of the hearing, the Republican majority projected onto a screen the
total value of our national debt (using the total value of federal government
debt outstanding).

I made the point that the recent increase in government spending (and decline in
revenue) is almost entirely because of the way the financial sector imploded and
damaged the rest of the private sector in 2007-8. In January 2008, the
Congressional Budget Office projected that total government debt in private
hands - the best measure of what the government owes - would fall to $5.1
trillion by 2018 (23 percent of gross domestic product). As of January 2010, the
C.B.O. projected that over the next eight years debt would rise to $13.7
trillion (over 65 percent of G.D.P.), a difference of $8.6 trillion.

Of the change in the C.B.O. baseline, 57 percent is because of decreased tax
revenues resulting from the financial crisis and recession; 17 percent to
increases in discretionary spending, some of it the stimulus package
necessitated by the financial crisis (and because the "automatic stabilizers" in
the United States are relatively weak); and another 14 percent to increased
interest payments on the debt - because the United States now has more debt.

I was disappointed, although not entirely surprised, that no one on the
Republican side wanted to talk about how these enormous fiscal costs were the
result of excessive risk-taking by what were then very large financial
institutions and what have now become very large banks.

Spencer Bachus, Republican of Alabama and chairman emeritus of the committee,
did assure me that proprietary trading - the kind of concentrated risk-taking
that is the focus of the Volcker Rule - had nothing to do with the deep nature
of the crisis and the very difficult subsequent recovery.

Unfortunately, he did not appear inclined to discuss the details of what went
wrong in 2007-8 at Citigroup, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley, Lehman Brothers,
Bear Stearns or Goldman Sachs - or what the more recent London Whale experience
at JPMorgan Chase should teach us about the continuing risks of allowing insured
banks to gamble in complex derivatives that management does not fully
understand.

Sifma and others at the hearing warned of dire consequences from the Volcker
Rule, but they could point to nothing of macroeconomic consequence by way of
concrete impact. (There was some unintentional impact on community banks from
the rule as proposed in December, but this was addressed by further changes last
week - and the hearing made it plain that there is bipartisan agreement on
avoiding any such difficulties. For more details on the issues, see my written
testimony.)

This is a big year for financial reform discussions. The Federal Reserve needs
to propose and adopt further important rules, including those governing how big
banks finance themselves. The Government Accountability Office must issue a
report that details the subsidies currently received by too-big-to-fail banks.
And another midterm election can affect the general tenor of the debate and who
controls the legislative agenda.

But make no mistake about it. Washington or Main Street did not win any big
battles against the largest and most powerful financial companies. The early
skirmishes are over, and the lines are now more clearly drawn.

As Dennis Kelleher of the pro-reform group Better Markets put it,

Wall Street went to war against Washington and financial reform; it has had many
significant victories and, yes, some defeats; but, most importantly, Wall
Street's war continues unabated with no end in sight. Wall Street's
too-big-to-fail banks simply have too much money at stake, literally hundreds of
billions if not trillions of dollars, to stop fighting.

Anyone who thinks financial reform is over should read Mr. Kelleher's full
article.

The big conflict lies ahead, and it will be long and drawn out. As memories of
the last crisis recede, will regulators continue to carry out financial reforms
in a sensible manner or, as in so many instances in the past, will they relax
and let the big banks return to their most dangerous ways?



     ·    An Occupy Wall Street Offshoot Has Its Day
     ·    A Modest Volcker Rule
     ·    Making the Volcker Rule Work
     ·    Reducing the Impact of Too Big to Fail
     ·    Getting the Volcker Rule Done



                              
 @GSElevator Tattletale Exposed (He Was Not in the Goldman Elevator)

 

A three-year parlor game has been taking place on Wall Street to identify the
Goldman Sachs employee behind a Twitter account that purports to reveal the
uncensored comments overheard in the firm's elevators.

The Twitter account, @GSElevator, reports overheard remarks like, "I never give
money to homeless people. I can't reward failure in good conscience," and
"Groupon...Food stamps for the middle class."

The Twitter account, which has an audience of more than 600,000 followers, has
been the subject of an internal inquiry at Goldman to find the rogue employee.
The tweets, often laced with insider references to deals in the news, appeal to
both Wall Street bankers and outsiders who mock the industry. Late last month,
the writer sold a book about Wall Street culture based on the tweets for a
six-figure sum.

There is a good reason Goldman Sachs has been unable to uncover its
Twitter-happy employee: He doesn't work at the firm. And he never did.

The author is a 34-year-old former bond executive who lives in Texas. His name
is John Lefevre.

He had tried to remain anonymous, scrubbing the Internet of mentions of his name
and pictures of himself on all but a handful of sites. Some had already
speculated that @GSElevator was not hanging around the halls of Goldman.

The ability of people like Mr. Lefevre to create anonymous Twitter accounts
underscores concerns about the veracity of what is published and the identity of
authors. It also raises questions about whether publishers are blurring the line
between real life and the made-up kind.

Upon being contacted late last week after several weeks of reporting uncovered
his identity, he confirmed his alter ego. "Frankly, I'm surprised it has taken
this long," he said by phone. "I knew this day would come."

Mr. Lefevre, who worked for Citigroup for seven years, said the Twitter account
started as "a joke to entertain myself."

He quickly interrupted the inevitable line of questioning about how he had never
worked at Goldman and appeared to be an impostor. "To pre-empt what you're about
to say, legally speaking," he said, "I was never explicitly an employee of the
firm."

Mr. Lefevre was offered a job as head of debt syndicate in Asia at Goldman's
Hong Kong office in August 2010, but the offer was later revoked, according to
people at the firm who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not
authorized to discuss the matter. Mr. Lefevre said his previous employer
contended that he was bound by a noncompete agreement and "things turned nasty
with my old boss and he threatened a lawsuit against me and Goldman."

By Mr. Lefevre's own account of his experience with Goldman: "My contract was
never rescinded. We cordially agreed to part ways to avoid a public mess. I
don't know how much I can talk about it. It wasn't acrimonious."

When pressed about whether he had implicitly misrepresented himself as a Goldman
employee, he said he deliberately never said in any of his tweets that he worked
for the firm. "This was never about me as a person," he said. "It wasn't about a
firm. The stories aren't Goldman Sachs in particular. It was about the culture
in general."

A Goldman spokesman, after being told that @GSElevator had been unmasked, said
in a statement, "We are pleased to report that the official ban on talking in
elevators will be lifted effective immediately."

The fact that Mr. Lefevre was not a Goldman employee did not appear to dissuade
his publisher, Touchstone, an imprint of Simon & Schuster, which said it had not
been misled.

"He's been pretty straight with us the entire time, so this is not a surprise,"
said the book's editor, Matthew Benjamin, who bought the book without ever
meeting Mr. Lefevre. "That you're writing about him speaks to the interest he's
generated. We always expected his identity to be revealed at some point."

Mr. Lefevre's agent, Byrd Leavell, said: "What matters is that every story in
the book is true. John's material he delivered is hilarious. The book isn't
going to live or die on whether he worked at Goldman Sachs for two months or
not."

Mr. Lefevre, who started at Citigroup in New York in 2001 after graduating from
Babson College before moving with the firm to London and then Hong Kong, said
that he was inspired to start the Twitter account in the fall of 2011. "I was
sitting around with a friend at a bar," he said.

At the time, an account called @CondeElevator had sprung up, supposedly
chronicling the goings-on in the elevator of the media company Condé Nast. "I
thought, 'This is ridiculous that people are infatuated with Condé Nast. If they
only saw the elitist, sexist and out-of-touch things bankers say.' People had no
idea what it is really like."

He said he chose to name his account after Goldman Sachs because "it was
commercial." In an email, Mr. Lefevre added, Goldman "has more love/hate Main
Street appeal." At the time, the Occupy Wall Street movement was in full swing.
He said he was also struck by some of the lines, comical to him, he heard from
people at Goldman when he first received a job offer. "Even socializing with
them - going to bars and having guys buy girls drinks and then throw out a line
like, 'Don't worry ladies, these drinks are on Goldman Sachs.' "

Mr. Lefevre, who left Citigroup in 2008 and began to work at a start-up boutique
firm in 2009 in Hong Kong, insisted that many of the exchanges he published on
Twitter were true: "I've been collecting these stories for years."

He said his intent was neither to mock nor glamorize Wall Street. "I do not have
an agenda to paint the people or this culture one way or the other," he said,
adding that he was "always a cynical banker" when he worked on Wall Street but
"I loved it. We did a lot of crazy stuff. It's not like I had a great epiphany
along the way."

Still, he said that working on Wall Street was an eye-opener. "I went into
investment banking and I saw a group of people that aren't as impressive as I
thought they were - or as impressive as they thought they were. They defined
themselves as human beings by their jobs."

His Twitter feed has become red meat for industry critics, something Mr. Lefevre
said was initially unintentional but later something he tried to stoke. "A lot
of times I pander, I'll be honest with you. I pander for retweets," he said,
referring to users blasting copies of a tweet to their own followers,
multiplying its reach.

He said his Twitter account had evolved over the last few years: "Early on, I
tweeted more about specific people or deals, inside jokes/commentary, and even a
few ad hominem attacks. That gave me a certain validation and credibility. But
over time, the tweets have been increasingly styled to have a bit more
commercial appeal.

"I don't consider it selling out or pandering to a lower common denominator; I
think of it more as adapting to what the widest possible audience of people
responds favorably to."

Mr. Lefevre, who refused to disclose his location in Texas, started worrying
several months ago that his identity would be revealed. He received some emails
from friends who had guessed it was him. He also noticed that some Goldman Sachs
employees had viewed his LinkedIn profile page; he later removed it.

Now that he has been outed, he said, "it's something that can be embraced. And I
certainly don't have anything to hide."

A sampling of musings from GSElevator's Twitter account:

#1: I just want to be rich enough to not be motivated by money.
- GS Elevator Gossip (@GSElevator)14 Dec 13

#1: Only Neanderthals resort to violence. I prefer crushing one's spirit, hope,
or ego.
- GS Elevator Gossip (@GSElevator)25 Dec 13

#1: Some chick asked me what I would do with 10 million bucks. I told her I'd
wonder where the rest of my money went.
- GS Elevator Gossip (@GSElevator)12 Nov 13



     ·    Goldman Banker With Year's Top Tech Quarry
     ·    Wall Street Gears Up for a Twitter I.P.O.



                              
 Picking Up the Pace at the S.E.C.

 

Simon Johnson, former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, is the
Ronald A. Kurtz professor of entrepreneurship at the M.I.T. Sloan School of
Management and co-author of "White House Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our
National Debt, and Why It Matters to You."

In an important speech on Feb. 21, Kara Stein, a commissioner at the Securities
and Exchange Commission since August 2013, laid out a powerful vision for how
regulation should operate in the United States. She put much more focus on
reducing unacceptable systemic risks and on cooperation between the S.E.C. and
other relevant agencies.

At the moment, some of her colleagues at the S.E.C. seem to lack sufficient
drive in terms of deciding on crucial regulatory issues and pushing forward on
them. Let's hope the S.E.C. chairwoman, Mary Jo White, will agree with Ms. Stein
that the pace of carrying out reforms needs to accelerate - and that important
potential loopholes in the regulatory system need to be closed.

As Ms. Stein emphasizes, the S.E.C. has become more forceful on enforcement in
the last couple of years, and the organization should get appropriate credit for
this change. The lack of sufficient enforcement before 2007 and immediately
after the crisis of 2007-8 remains a stain on the reputation of the S.E.C. and,
frankly, created a credibility gap that needs now to be overcome. (To be clear,
I am not happy with enforcement in the financial arena more broadly, but I would
put more emphasis on failings at the Department of Justice.)

The S.E.C. is also an important writer of rules. And it is on this dimension
that Ms. Stein stresses that there is unfortunately insufficient progress to
report.

The Dodd-Frank Act requires that the S.E.C. work, through writing or amending,
on more than 100 rules. A significant amount of this work remains to be done,
including on money market funds and on the ability of shareholders to claw back
compensation from executives who run their companies onto the rocks.

The problem is not so much the amount of work as a tendency to fall back into
the bad old habits that prevailed before 2007 - this (and what follows below) is
my assessment, not what Ms. Stein says.

The Financial Stability Oversight Council was created in order to help
regulators work together effectively. It has helped on a few issues, including
nudging things forward on money market mutual funds, but over all its
effectiveness has been disappointing. Part of the problem may be lack of full
cooperation from the S.E.C. and some other regulators. Fighting to protect turf
is not good for the health of the overall financial system.

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is pushing hard for meaningful change
- for example, see my recent assessment of the work being done by its vice
chairman, Thomas Hoenig. The Federal Reserve System is more uneven, but some
people at the top want to carry out real change.  For example, the F.D.I.C. and
the Fed are now putting more emphasis on the leverage ratio - the total amount
of assets that a financial company has, relative to its shareholder equity,
without making any "risk-weighting" adjustments. This is a sensible step in the
right direction.

But the S.E.C. needs to get on the same page, in part because that agency
regulates broker-dealers, which trade securities and are a significant part of
some large banks. Broker-dealers can easily increase borrowing (that is, take on
more debt), which increases leverage of the overall bank and the risks to the
system. Where is Ms. White on the core set of issues surrounding the regulation
of capital and reasonable limits on leverage?

At the moment we just do not know. (There are five S.E.C. commissioners, but Ms.
White is widely regarded as holding the decisive vote on important issues.)

A further fascinating example is provided now by collateralized loan
obligations. Large, complex financial institutions - known as L.C.F.I. to
officials, and as too-big-to-fail banks to the rest of us - are trying to argue
that they should be allowed to invest in these financial instruments just as
they were allowed to hold other kinds of securitized instruments (with multiple
tranches) before the financial crisis.

These issues are complex, but Adam Levitin of Georgetown University has kindly
provided a very good primer on the issues in recent congressional testimony.

Insured banks and other regulated financial institutions have an incentive to
hold assets in such a way as to limit the amount of equity they are required to
use in their funding. Again, this is about bankers wanting to raise leverage, as
this increases their return on equity - and compensation - when things go well.
When things go badly, of course, it's a major problem, but - the people running
too-big-to-fail banks hope - for someone else. (Anat Admati and Martin Hellwig's
book, "The Bankers' New Clothes," is the must-read text on the core incentive
issue.)

An effective way for big banks to become more leveraged before 2007 was to set
up an "off-balance sheet" entity that was allowed to be thinly capitalized
because any losses supposedly could not become a responsibility of the bank. But
banks have repeatedly provided support to - and therefore incurred the losses
due to - legally separate funds. As Professor Levitin points out on Page 11 of
his testimony, "We have seen it happen repeatedly with credit card
securitizations," and it also happened in a number of prominent cases in 2007
and 2008, including two "nominally independent, external hedge funds" that were
bailed out by Bear Stearns.

Working with other regulators, the S.E.C. must guard against collateralized loan
obligations' becoming the next big loophole in capital requirements and in the
Volcker Rule (which prohibits banks from taking this kind of dangerous risk).

More broadly, as Mr. Levitin put it, "The S.E.C. needs to take its systemic
stability mandate just as seriously as it does its investor protection mandate."
If Ms. White listens to Ms. Stein, the S.E.C. will head in that direction.



     ·    An Occupy Wall Street Offshoot Has Its Day
     ·    The Fed Shifts Ground on Big Banks
     ·    Making the Volcker Rule Work
     ·    The Bankruptcy Exemption
     ·    Sadly, Too Big to Fail Is Not Over



                              
 Rooftop Films Sets Summer Lineup

 

A sneak preview of "Obvious Child," a Sundance favorite that happens to be an
abortion rom-com, will be among the films kicking off this summer's Rooftop Film
series, which begins in Brooklyn on May 16.

Specializing in showing films atop various New York buildings, Rooftop Films has
scheduled 45 screenings - - along with musical performances and, somehow,
mushroom hunting - for its 18th edition, which wraps mid-August. Among the films
on the schedule are: "Cold in July," a revenge thriller starring Michael C.
Hall, Don Johnson and Sam Shepard that has been selected to screen at Cannes,
and the world premiere of "Thanksgiving" by Adam Newport-Berra.

"Obvious Child," which opens commercially June 6, was directed by Gillian
Robespierre and stars Jenny Slate, an alumna of "Saturday Night Live" and the
YouTube stop-motion sensation "Marcel the Shell With Shoes On."

The film screens May 17, a day after the series begins with a program of shorts.
More information on the lineup is at rooftopfilms.com.



     ·    Vampires and Aging Rockers Make the Cut for New Directors/New Films
     ·    Rooftop Films Gives Occupy Wall Street Its Own Film Series



                              
 New York Today: Sports Turnaround

 

 Good morning on this fair Tuesday.

The city's sports teams have had their share of ups and downs in recent months.
Mostly downs.

But at this moment, things are looking up.

The Nets just won their first playoff round. Tonight, they take on the defending
champion Miami Heat - a team that only the Nets seemed to be able to beat this
season.

The Rangers advanced in the playoffs, too.

The Yankees are in a virtual tie for the lead in their division.

Even the Mets have won more games than they lost, something they have not done
over the course of a season since moving to Citi Field in 2009.

Monday night, admittedly, was not a good night, with the Yankees, Mets and
Rangers all losing.

But over all, it's been a decent season so far.

"It wasn't long ago people were saying things have never been worse for New York
sports," said Jay Schreiber, a deputy sports editor at The Times.

"Now you have a basketball and a hockey team in the second round, a Mets team
that's absolutely a surprise that they're doing this well. And a Yankees team
that despite some injury and adversity has a pretty good chance at the
playoffs."

For the Nets, still trying to establish themselves in their second year in
Brooklyn, "This is their dream," Mr. Schreiber said.

"A second-round playoff series against the most glamorous team in basketball -
the Heat with LeBron James - and the Knicks aren't around."

Tipoff is in Miami at 7 o'clock (TNT).

Here's what else you need to know.

WEATHER

Morning clouds, afternoon sun, with a high of 68.

Wednesday, the reverse.

COMMUTE

Subways: Delays on the northbound F. Check latest status.

Path: No problems. Check latest status.

Rails: Scattered delays on L.I.R.R. Check L.I.R.R., Metro-North or N.J. Transit
status.

Roads: Check traffic map or radio report on the 1s or the 8s.

Alternate-side parking is  in effect  until Memorial Day.

COMING UP TODAY

Mayor de Blasio, the first lady, and their daughter, Chiara, speak at a federal
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration event in Washington at
1:45 p.m. [Livestream]

The police commissioner and the Cronut creator speak at a forum on "New York
Ideas," at the New-York Historical Society. 9 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. [$149, free
Livestream]

Mariano Rivera signs his memoir at the Barnes & Noble on Fifth Avenue in
Midtown. Noon.

Odd but free: Take a selfie for Mom against the backdrop of  "a beautiful floral
wall or a fun chocolate chip wall" at Grand Central. 7 a.m. to 7 p.m.

The former Governors David A. Paterson and George E. Pataki talk about how to
prepare for a nuclear disaster, at Canoe Studios in Midtown. 3 p.m. [Free]

For more events, see The New York Times Arts & Entertainment guide.

IN THE NEWS

The mayor's $8.2 billion, 200,000-unit affordable housing plan would require
developers to include low-price dwellings in new residential projects across the
city. [New York Times]

An Occupy Wall Street protester was convicted of assaulting a police officer.
She had maintained she elbowed the officer after he grabbed her breast. [New
York Times]

The city's Rent Guidelines Board proposed very low increases for rent-stabilized
apartments, including a one-year freeze for some. [New York Times]

Michael Alig, a king of the city's 1990s club scene, was freed after serving 17
years for murdering a roommate. [The Independent]

The U.S. Supreme Court ruled that an upstate suburb of Rochester may start town
meetings with a sectarian prayer. [New York Times]

The former head of the Detroit City Council, who fled the city last summer over
a sex scandal involving an 18-year-old he had mentored, turned up working as a
waiter in Harlem. [WXYZ-TV]

The police keep raiding a Brooklyn man's apartment in search of him even though
he died in 2006, a suit charges. His family posted his death certificate on the
door. [New York Post]

A 30-foot Sei whale - an endangered species - washed ashore in Bay Ridge,
Brooklyn, and died. [New York Post]

Why New York City taxis are (mostly) yellow. [Ephemeral New York]

Scoreboard: Penguins trip Rangers, 2-0. Angels bring down Yankees, 4-1. Marlins
sink Mets, 4-3.

Sandra E. Garcia and Kenneth Rosen contributed reporting.

New York Today is a weekday roundup that stays live from 6 a.m. till late
morning.  You can receive it via email.

What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at
nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday.

Follow the New York Today columnists, Annie Correal and Andy Newman, on Twitter.

You can always find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.



                              
 New York Today: Mother's Day Delays

 

 Good morning to you on this damp Friday.

There are several days a year when heavy traffic is predictable: around
Thanksgiving, Christmas, the Super Bowl.

But there's a sleeper - a day when cars clog roads that should be empty.

That would be Mother's Day.

On Sunday, there may be rush hour-like traffic on bridges and tunnels in the
afternoon and evening, said Samuel I. Schwartz, the former traffic commissioner
now known as Gridlock Sam.

"Fathers take mothers out on Mother's Day," Mr. Schwartz said.

The same thing does not happen on Father's Day, he added.

In 2012 and 2013, there were 5,000 more cars on the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge on
Mother's Day than on Father's Day, Mr. Schwartz said.

(He chose the Verrazano for its distance from major stadiums.)

"I think a lot of the fathers will sit back and let mothers cook for them," Mr.
Schwartz said.

Another cause for the traffic: grandma.

Many people might go to their grandmother's for dinner, and drivers should
expect traffic on the Long Island Expressway.

"That leads to a lot of grandmas on Long Island," Mr. Schwartz said.

Here's what else you need to know for Friday and the weekend.

WEATHER

Drip, drip.

A chance of rain all day long, but not much. Bring a small umbrella. High of 64.

Showers likely on Saturday, with a muggy high of 78.

Sunday, a Mother's Day spectacular: mostly sunny with a high near 80.

COMMUTE

Subways:  Delays on the 7 and the B. Check latest status.

Path: Check latest status.

Rails: Scattered delays on L.I.R.R.  Check L.I.R.R., Metro-North or N.J. Transit
status.

Roads: No unusual delays. Check traffic map or radio report on the 1s or the 8s.

Alternate-side parking is  in effect  until Memorial Day.

Weekend Travel Hassles: Check subway disruptions or list of street closings.

COMING UP TODAY

Mayor de Blasio names a new fire commissioner: Daniel A. Nigro, who commanded
rescue operations on 9/11.

Eat breakfast while listening to the commissioner of the city Department of
Investigation, at New York Law School. 8:15 a.m. [Free, donations accepted.
Register]

At the Affordable Photography Fair, established by newspaper photographers, at
Soho Photo, all prints are $100. [Admission free]

A show of early-'60s photos of Coney Island, some of them featured in The Times
last Sunday, opens at the Museum of the City of New York. [$10]

Rosie Perez talks about her  "Handbook for an Unpredictable Life" at Restoration
Plaza in Bed-Stuy. 7 p.m. [Free]

Art-fair marathon: Go from Frieze New York on Randalls Island to the Select Fair
and the Contemporary Art Fair NYC in Chelsea ...

... To the Downtown Fair on East 25th Street ...

... To the New Art Dealers Alliance and cutlog fairs  on the Lower East Side.
[Prices vary]

The Workers Unite Film Festival opens at  Cinema Village. Screenings start at 5
p.m. [$7]

"We Are the Best!" - a new Swedish movie about 13-year-old girls forming a punk
band in 1982 - shows at IndieScreen in Williamsburg. 7 p.m. [Free]

Rangers at Penguins. Yankees visit Brewers. Mets host Phillies.

IN THE NEWS

The mayor's $74 billion budget plan raises spending without big cuts. [New York
Times]

Ridgewood, Queens, has a brand new Superfund site. [Associated Press]

A robber wielding a hammer is attacking subway commuters in Brooklyn and Queens.
[New York Times]

A school bus carrying children fatally struck a woman on the Upper East Side.
[New York Times]

Nine members of the jury that convicted an Occupy Wall Street protester of
assaulting a police officer asked a judge not to send her to prison. [Gothamist]

A 7 train is being temporarily made over to look like the coffee shop where the
"Seinfeld" characters hung out. [Daily News]

Bachelorette parties at the Metropolitan Museum of Art are a thing. [Newsweek]

Scoreboard: Heat too much for Nets, 94-82.

THE WEEKEND

Saturday

The New York Bike Jumble, a flea market for new and used bikes and accessories,
comes to Park Slope. 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. [Free]

Bklyn Designs, a showcase of furnishings and accessories, continues at St. Ann's
Warehouse in Dumbo. 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. [$20]

Sand a rowboat or make a paper boat with the children at the Brooklyn Boat
Builders Bash at the Navy Yard. Noon. [Free]

The Jalopy Cajun, Creole and Zydeco Festival continues in Red Hook. From noon
on. [$30, $50 for a three-day pass]

The TriBeCa Open Artist Studio Tour, otherwise known as TOAST, from 1 p.m. to 6
p.m. (also Sunday and Monday). [Free]

Watch cardboard-and-packing-tape robots, with human pilots "completely concealed
within," do battle at the Standard ToyKraft theater in Williamsburg. 8 p.m.
[$15]

Sunday

The Mother's Day Prospect Park Duathalon - that means running and biking -
starts at 7:30 a.m. [$25 and up]

A Mother's Day Garden Party at the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx, with
jazz, a vintage photographer and picnicking opportunities. 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.
[$30]

Meet animal moms and their babies at a party at Central Park Zoo. 10:30 a.m. to
4 p.m. [$50, for human and child]

One last art walk, this one through the galleries of the Lower East Side. Noon.
[Free]

Upper West Side blues: the French Cookin' Blues Band plays in Riverside Park. 2
p.m. [Free]

For more events, see The New York Times Arts & Entertainment guide.

AND FINALLY ...

Fifty years ago today,  a 62-year-old resident of Queens knocked the Beatles off
the top of the charts.

His name was Louis Armstrong.

The song was "Hello, Dolly!" - his first No. 1 hit.

On Saturday, American Museum of the Moving Image in Queens celebrates the
occasion with a dessert reception at 1 p.m., followed by a screening of "Hello,
Dolly!" the film at 2 p.m.

Seldom-seen footage of Satchmo's performances will also be shown, from the
archives of the Louis Armstrong House and Museum.

(Here's an often-seen video of Armstrong performing "Hello, Dolly!" live.)

The $12 ticket includes admission to the Museum of the Moving Image and a pass
to the Armstrong museum in Corona, Queens.

Sandra E. Garcia and Kenneth Rosen contributed reporting.

New York Today is a weekday roundup that stays live from 6 a.m. till late
morning.  You can receive it via email.

What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at
nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday.

Follow the New York Today columnists, Annie Correal and Andy Newman, on Twitter.

You can always find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.



                              
 New York Today: Out to Lunch

 

 Good soon-to-be-gorgeous morning to you.

Why must weather like this be wasted on a Tuesday?

At least there's lunch hour.

But where to eat outside in peace?

Arik Gabbai, an editor at The New Yorker, prefers the plaza just off Bryant
Park, between 41st and 42nd Streets.

It has the three qualities of a highly desirable lunch spot in Manhattan, he
said: "Benches facing in all directions, sun from all angles, and it's more
hidden than Bryant Park."

Try these, too:

The Tudor City Greens Parks: Flowers, nooks, real trees. The U.N. crowd tends to
fill the place quickly. Leave time for a walk through the Ford Foundation's
atrium next door.

The Girl Scouts Bench: It's right in front of the sign that says "Girl Scouts of
the U.S.A.," and there are also benches behind the bike racks. Discreet, if not
elegant.

The Fairfield Inn & Suites in the Flower District: Walk through the corridor of
greenery and you'll find two little tables.

The James A. Farley Post Office: Eat quickly on the steps, taking in the theater
of Eighth Avenue, then take a walk west toward the river. Our own Big Sky
Country.

The Federal Courthouse on Pearl Street: The snaking pedestrian plaza outside
offers shade for you and for one or two tai chi practitioners.

Here's what else you need to know for Tuesday.

WEATHER

Cloudless, with a light breeze, and a high of 78.

At solar noon, 11:52 a.m., the sun will slip into the canyons of Midtown and
obliterate the shadows of the Financial District.

It should find you outside; for tomorrow it may rain.

COMMUTE

Subways: Check latest status.

PATH: Check latest status.

Rails: Check L.I.R.R., Metro-North, N.J. Transit or Amtrak status.

Roads: Check traffic map or radio report on the 1s or the 8s.

Alternate-side parking is  in effect  until Memorial Day.

COMING UP TODAY

Mayor de Blasio speaks at an annual seminar on ethics in city government at New
York Law School. 8:30 a.m.

The mayor tours an electronics manufacturer and makes an announcement at the
Brooklyn Army Terminal courtyard in Sunset Park. 11 a.m.

Ten lunchroom tables go on display in Union Square, a preview of a summer
exhibition by public school students. 11:30 a.m.

Gizmodo, the tech blog, presents "Home of the Future," an immersive experience
of a futuristic apartment, in Soho. All day. [Free]

"Gatsby to Garp: Modern Masterpieces from the Carter Burden Collection,"
featuring first editions, manuscripts and letters, opens at the Morgan Library
and Museum. 10:30 a.m. [$18]

For more events, see The New York Times Arts & Entertainment guide.

IN THE NEWS

The flood of heroin in New York City has surged to the highest levels in more
than two decades. [New York Times]

Mayor de Blasio asked the city's tabloids to apologize to his wife for their
response to a magazine profile about her. "I Was a Bad Mom!" read the cover of
the New York Post. [New York Times]

A Kickstarter project aims to bring "a chic tent-hotel" to Far Rockaway. [Queens
Courier]

An Occupy Wall Street protester was sentenced to three months in jail, despite
pleas for her release. [New York Times]

The police launch a "48-Hour Speeding Enforcement Initiative" at midnight.
[Gothamist]

Kenneth Rosen contributed reporting.

New York Today is a weekday roundup that stays live from 6 a.m. till late
morning. You can receive it via email.

What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at
nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday.

Follow the New York Today columnists, Annie Correal and Andy Newman, on Twitter.

You can always find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.




